This is Jocco podcast number 82 with echo Charles and me, Jocco Willink.
Good evening echo.
Good evening.
I was walking down the street and I was pretty sure I would die and I did not mind.
In fact, a large part of me looked forward to it, to that release, to go to heaven, to meet Christ
for it all to be over.
I recorded death like a sailor courts, a twirling Spanish bar made.
I was not afraid even as we tried to cross broken streets with asphalt and makeshift concrete piled
like sloppy cake icing hiding the surprises below.
Large IDs and screams and blood and burning flesh and burning vehicle tires all superficially
hidden all obviously present all a joke.
And at the forefront of my mind and part of my decision to become a soldier at all.
And that's what I considered myself, a soldier, a grunt and infantryman, a ground pounder, a soldier.
What else is there?
We all turned into soldiers on patrol.
We competed with each other and the men and other units and other services to see who could patrol
in the most disciplined way.
We would see who we could catch staring at his feet or not watching his field of fire or not scanning for threats.
We're not keeping his shooting hand on his gun.
And when the shooting did start, we would watch to see who would panic and who would cower.
These were seemingly fun games and recesses breaking up the fear which was so overpowering,
it put a deep ache in our stomachs and in our bowels.
There was chaos that brought me to this point.
Wild music as a young boy, slayer, matallica in their prime, venom, motorhead.
Heavy alcohol used by age 10.
Drug use by age 11.
Late night punk concerts and mosh pits were at nearly lost my front tooth at age 12 as it dug deeply into a punk's shaved head.
I was tall for my age and people treated me like an adult.
They tried to bring me into their filth.
Junkies perverts to generates an evil world burning.
So much so that war was a dream come true.
It seemed as if now I could fight back against the depravity and evil that tried to engulf me.
And I held that quiet hope, that unspoken hope that maybe I could die in war, doing something heroic like they trained us to do.
Maybe this God forsaken and worthless life could be over.
This gauntletten.
And so the IED-laden roads attempting to scare me and us were a joke.
And I did not care about it.
About the setup, about the punchline, I just wanted enemy contact and I wanted to smell the blood of particles floating through the afternoon air.
And the screams of the dying, that is what I wanted.
It seemed so beautiful.
My mind had romanticized it all.
But what we got wasn't so romantic, isn't so beautiful.
Most of the screams I heard were the screams of my countrymen as they bled, or the screams of innocence who were in the wrong place at the wrong time.
I watched the funerals of men we shot, going right past us, the children crying, the wives glaring as they damned us with ancient Babylonian curses that would try to follow me.
I tried to follow me back to my home in Satanic nightmares where I could not escape them.
All those things made death so true and so beautiful and so acceptable.
Now those words were written by someone that I served with in Ramadi in 2006 and he sent them to me the other day after we talked and asked him to write down what he thought about.
He was walking down the street in Ramadi and obviously what he wrote about, get revealed so much of the incredible spectrum of emotions and thoughts that run through our heads.
And obviously, we're magnifies those, but these are thoughts of a human being and these are the kind of thoughts that people have not just in war but in life.
And I was sitting thinking about that word and that the fact that struggle, it absolutely shapes us.
And I was talking about this when I was with Joe Rogan and Chris Cornell from Sound Garden had just killed himself and we were talking about the struggles and Joe was saying that the struggle, you got to kind of like struggle and you need struggle, people need struggle and some of the feedback that I saw on social media was,
you know, there's a difference between struggle and challenge and that a challenge is good but struggle is bad and and you know, I don't know and I'm not wishing struggles upon anyone.
I'm the guru but I do know that struggle and strife shapes us. It shapes us. There's no doubt. And as I was thinking about this, I started thinking about a bunch of different books that I've read in the past.
And one of them is a book called And We Go On. And it was written by a guy named Will are bird who's from Nova Scotia, Canada and he was a soldier in the Canadian Army in World War I.
And he'd enlisted in the army to replace his brother. So his brother had been killed in battle and he said, okay, I need to I need to enlist now and at first he couldn't enlist because he had bad teeth.
And then as more and more guys got killed, they loosened the standards and they allowed him in even with his bad teeth.
And the book is very different. And we're not going to go through the whole book today, but what makes the book different is he talks about.
Like the supernatural and he wrote another book as a matter of fact, which is called ghosts have warm hands. And so this kind of supernatural world is something he spends some pretty decent amount of time on.
And in the beginning of the book, one of the things that he says is the trench at zero hour was a crucible that dissolved all in sincerity and the superficial.
And you can clearly imagine that these guys getting ready to go over the top. I mean, what else matters at that point.
Everything that's not true is everything that is not sincere just means nothing at that point.
And I'm going to go to the book here for a minute.
And here's one of the things he said about sort of again, I've just started thinking about the psychological side of what people are going through.
So here we go to the book. This story is an effort to reveal a side of war that has not been given much attention. The psychic effect it had on its participants.
There existed before all battles, and even in the calms of the trench routine, a condition before which all natural explanations failed that no supernatural explanations were established.
Every human emotion ran its full gamut in that land of topsy-turvy and prolonged intensity of feeling rot, feeling rot strange psychological changes which warped the soul itself.
Never on earth was there a place where a man's support often his soul support was his faith in some mighty power. All intervening thoughts were swept aside unconsciously.
There were born faiths that men carried through critical moments and tortured minds, grasp fantasies that served in place of more solid creeds.
I think it's interesting that he says warped the soul. And I don't actually think, again, I'm no literary expert, but I don't think he means that with the negative connotation of warped being negative and bad, but I think he means like a departure from the normal, a departure from the straight line.
Moving away from the natural direction, and so it leaves men changed.
And like I said, I'm not going to cover this whole book, we'll probably do it at some point in the future.
But I think when he gets to the end of the book and he makes some statements that are pretty powerful. And of course this is now after he's gone through the war and he's on a ship sailing back to Canada.
And I'm going to read this section. Here we go back to the book, darkness, the rush of the ship.
I felt my way again into a stifling dugout into an atmosphere rancid with stale sweat and breathing, earth mold and the hot grease of candles.
I saw faces, cheeks resting on tunics, mud streaked, unshaven dirty faces with some with teeth clenched and sudden hate, some live it with pulsed stopping fear.
So men turning on their wire bunks, quivering as if some red hot grill. I heard them gasp and sob and cry out in agony and mutter as they tossed again.
Then a machine guns note, louder, higher, sharper, crack, crack, crack, as it sweeps over you in a shell hole where you hug the earth. The growl of guttle voices heavy steps in an unseen trench just the other side of the black mass of tangled barbed barricade beside which you cower.
The long drawn wine of a shell, its heart gripping explosion, the terrible oppressive silence that follows.
Then the first little whale of the man who is down with a gaping blood spurting wound.
I moved about shook myself sniffed the salt there and tried to rid myself of my dreams. And as I stood there, there came a sudden chill.
I grew cold as if I had entered a clammy cavern. I could not understand but went and got my great coat.
A dim figure passed me as I returned to the deck and a voice said, we're getting nearer home. I can feel the change.
I knew we had left the warm current and we're into the icy waters nearer home. We had left behind the comrade ship of long hours on the trench post and patrols, long days under blazing suns and crew marches on cobbled roads.
The brotherhood of the line and we were entering a cold sea facing the dark, the unknown we could not escape.
Dark figures came and stood beside me. I had not thought that anyone, save myself would come on deck and hear they were, ten a dozen, still more, all hunched in great coats silent, staring.
I looked at my watch, there was three o'clock in the morning. These men could not sleep. They were come to see the first lights of Halifax.
I moved quietly among them, scanning each blurred face. It was as I thought. They were all old timers, the men of the trenches.
We went on and on and on and no one spoke though we touched shoulders. I tried to think of a comparison.
We were like prisoners. I had seen them standing like that without speaking, staring, thinking prisoners.
We were prisoners who could never escape. I had been trying to imagine how I would express my feelings when I got home. And now I knew I never could. None of us could.
We could know more make ourselves articulate than could those who would not return. We were in a world apart prisoners in chains that would never loosen till death freed us.
And I knew those at home would never understand. They would be impatient, wondering why we were so dumb, unable to put our experiences into words.
And there would be many of the boys who would be surly, taciturn, moody, resenting good intentions, perhaps taking to hard liquor and aimless drifting.
We of the brotherhood could understand the soldier but never explain him. All of us would remain a separate definite people as if branded by some monstrous despotism.
I warmed as I fought of all that the brotherhood had meant. The sharing of blankets and bread and hardships, the binding of each other's wounds.
The talks we had had of intimate things of the dog and simple faith that men had showed flashes of their inner cells that strengthened one's own soul.
Perhaps when my bitterness passed, when I had got back to normal self to loved ones tried hard by years of waiting, I would find that despite that horror which I could never forget.
I had equalizing treasure in memories I could use like Jacob's ladder to get high enough to see that even war itself could never be the whole of life.
The watcher stirred, I tingled, my throat tightened. Waves of emotion seized me, held me.
I grew hot and cold at queer sensations. Every man had tenced, crane forward yet no one spoke.
It was the moment for which we had lived, which we had dreamed, visioned, pictured a thousand times, it held us now so enthralled, so full of feeling that we could not find utterance.
A million thrills ran through me. Far ahead, faint, but growing brighter, we had glimpsed the first lights of home.
And that line when he says, perhaps when my bitterness passed and I could use my memories and he said he could use his memories like Jacob's ladder to get high enough to see that even war itself could never be the whole of life.
And those are the struggles he's talking about, those are the hardships.
And this change in his mindset to not let those drag him down, but to use those to climb up.
And I think we lose track of that sometimes. And all we see is the trench, and we get stuck in the trench.
And I think it's interesting that these men, literally and metaphorically speaking, these men were in trenches, but they were able to rise out of these trenches.
And I think they are able to rise out of those hellish trenches.
And that means we can too.
And again, this thing that my buddy sent me, they just got me thinking about that psychological turmoil of war.
And that sent me into thoughts of another book again, another book that I read a while back, I remember when I read it, but I just started thinking about it.
And this one was about Vietnam. And it's a classic. It's called the Rumor of War. And again, we'll absolutely cover this book on the podcast and detail at some point.
But I'm kind of just was on this literally tore mode. And the psyche, I think it's just a good view of the psyche that people have in war, which again reflects life.
And there's a section in this book where Phil Caputo is assigned to a re-reślant unit. He's in the rear. And he's a lieutenant in the Marine Corps. He's in the rear.
And I think he's in a regimental command post or something, but he's not fighting. And here's what he thinks of that going to the book.
In the middle of November, that my own request, I was transferred to a line company in First Battalion.
My convictions about the war had eroded almost to nothing. I had no illusions, but I had volunteered for a line company anyway.
There were a number of reasons of which the paramount was boredom. There was nothing for me to do, but count casualties.
I felt useless and a little guilty about living in relative safety while other men risked their lives.
I cannot deny that the front still held fascination for me. The rights are wrongs of the war aside. There was a magnetism about combat.
You seem to live more intensely under fire. Every sense was sharper, the mind worked clearer and faster.
Perhaps it was the tension of opposites that made it so and attraction balanced by a revolting hope that warred with dread.
You found yourself on a precarious emotional edge experience experiencing a headiness that no drink or drug could match.
The fear of madness was another motive. The hallucination I had had in that day and the mess of seeing more unharic and prefigured in death had become a constant waking nightmare.
I had begun to see almost everyone as they would look in death, including myself.
Shaving in the mirror in the morning, I could see myself dead.
Then there were moments when I not only saw my own corpse, but other people looking at it.
I saw life going on without me. The sensation of not being anymore came over me at night just before falling asleep.
Sometimes it made me laugh inside.
I could not take myself seriously when I could already see my own death.
Nor seeing their deaths as well could I take other seriously.
We were all the victims of a great practical joke played on us by God or nature.
Maybe that was why corpses always grinned. They saw the joke at the last moment.
Sometimes it made me laugh, but most of the time it was not at all humorous.
And I was sure that another few months of identifying bodies would land me in a psychiatric ward.
On staff there was too much time to brood over those corpses.
There would be very little time to think in a line company.
That is the secret to emotional survival in war, not thinking.
Finally, there was hatred. A hatred buried so deep that I could not then admit its existence.
I can now, though it is still painful.
I burned with a hatred for the vehicle and with an emotion that dwells in most of us,
one closer to the surface than we care to admit a desire for retribution.
I did not hate the enemy for their politics, but for murdering Simpson, for executing that boy who's body had been found in the river,
for blasting the life out of Walt Levy.
Revenge was one of the reasons I volunteered for a line company.
I wanted a chance to kill somebody.
And you could see even in that, comparing that with the first piece of things being a joke.
And how you just get to this point where things become a joke, how can you take anything seriously?
When you don't even know what's going to happen, and if you're going to live,
how much meaning does life have if you're not going to live it?
It gets back out to a line company and now he's on patrol talking about,
not only what that's like externally, but what it's like mentally, psychologically, going back to the book.
I tightened the shoulder straps of my pack heavily loaded with signal flares, smoke grenades, dry socks, a poncho, and three days rations.
And in trenching tool and machete were lashed to its side.
In my pockets, I cared a map, compass, hangar nades, more flares, Hallezone tablets, malaria pills, and a spare magazine for my car bean.
A pistol, two clips of ammunition, knife, first aid kit, and two full cantines hung from my belt.
My steel helmet and flat jacket added 20 pounds to the load.
The gear probably weighed over 40 pounds altogether, but I felt a wonderful, soaring lightness in my limbs.
I felt good all over better than I had felt in months.
Even Neil, who was not inclined to hand out compliments, had praised my gun-ho enthusiasm before the platoon left the base camp.
As sudden and mysterious recovery from the virus of fear had caused the change in mood, I don't know why.
I only knew I had ceased to be afraid of dying.
There was not a feeling of invincibility in difference, rather.
I had ceased to fear death because I had ceased to care about it.
Certainly, I had no illusions that my death, if it came, would be a sacrifice.
It would merely be a death, and not a good one either.
A good death involved a certain amount of choice, ritual, and style.
There were no good deaths in the war.
But the manner of dying no longer mattered.
I didn't care how death came, so long as it came quickly and painlessly.
I would die as casually as a beetle is crushed under a boot heel.
And perhaps it was this recognition of my insect-like pettingess that had made me stop caring.
That was a beetle.
We were all beetles scratching for survival in the wilderness.
Those who had lost the struggle had not changed anything by dying.
The deaths of Levi, Simpson, Sullivan, and the others had not made any difference.
Thousands of people died each week in the war, and the sum of all their deaths did not make any difference.
The war went on without them.
And as it went on without them, so would it go on without me.
My death would not alter a thing.
Walking down the trail, I could not remember having felt an emotion more sublime or liberating
than that indifference toward my own death.
Again, a common fought pattern is this feeling of, hey, I'm in hell and one thing like tuna set me free is death.
And once I overcome that, that just allows me to go and do what I'm supposed to do.
And I'm just going to fast forward once again, kind of like with the will bird going to the end where
where kaputo kind of wraps up his, what he's going to bring home from the war.
And at this point, he's obviously survived the enemy. He's survived actually at this point. He survived a court martial
because he'd gotten in some trouble. There was some bad things that happened while he was in charge.
There was, you know, cases against him.
And he kind of got out of that situation.
And now he is heading home.
Going back to the book.
But we stood waiting in the sun at the edge of the runway.
There were about 150 of us. And we watched his replacement draft filed off the big transport plane.
They fell into formation and tried to ignore the dusty, tanned, ragged-looking men who jirged
them.
The replacements looked strangely young, far younger than we, and awkward and bewildered by this scorched
land to which an indifferent government had sent them.
I did not join in the mockery.
I felt sorry for those children knowing that they would all grow old in this land of endless
dying.
I pityed them.
Knowing that out of every ten one would die.
The more would be maimed for life, another two would be less seriously wounded and sent out to fight again.
And all the rest would be wounded in other, more hidden ways.
The replacements were marched off toward the convoys that awaited to carry them to their assigned units and their assigned
feats.
None of them looked at us.
They marched away.
Shouldering our sea bags, we climbed up the ramp into the plane.
The plane we had all dreamed about.
The grand mythological freedom bird.
A joyous shout went up as the transport lurched off the runway and climbed into the placid sky.
Blow lay the rice patties and the green folded hills where we had all lost our friends and our youth.
The plane banked and headed out over the China Sea towards Okinawa, toward Freedom from deaths in brace.
None of us was a hero.
We would not return to cheering crowds parades and the peeling of great cathedral bells.
We had done nothing more than endure.
We had survived and that was our only victory.
And I think that is important for us to remember.
That in some cases, some of the things that we go through, some of the things, some of the challenges and tribulations and trials that people get put through.
Sometimes survival is victory.
And all you can do is survive and make it through a situation that you're in.
And I think sometimes when people survive something horrible, instead of being happy or related that they made it through.
Instead they focus on the fact that they got put through it.
And again, I don't know professional at all.
There was even when I was on Jill Rogan's podcast and we were talking about Chris Cornell committing suicide.
Someone said, because we kind of devolved into a conversation of hey, get outside and Tim Ferriss went.
Tim Ferriss was on this podcast. He was saying, get moving, get physical.
So Joe and I were just kind of talking about that and someone came on and said, you know, you don't know what you're talking about.
It's it's you're lucky to survive something like this. It's horrible.
And you know, I kind of said, man, I know I'm not saying that.
And literally I'd read, listen to Joe and I talking and both of us what we were saying was, over and over again, I don't understand this.
I don't comprehend it. You know, so I don't think that was the intention was saying,
oh, all you have to do is go get out of kettlebell and you'll be good to go. That's not the intention at all.
And that's not what either one of us, not only was it, not what you're trying to say, we didn't actually say that.
We were saying, hey, I don't understand it. I haven't been in that position before.
That's why we brought Tim on here because Tim had lived through that and knew how bad it was and planned to kill himself.
So that to me is someone that can give their opinion. Joe and I were literally saying, I don't comprehend.
But I think when you get a guy like the author of this book, a rumor of war, who's talking about their victory or his victory and the people on the plate, their victory in Vietnam was survival was just getting through it.
And I know that's nothing you're going to be joyous about, but I think at least recognizing, okay, I made it through, now let me move on.
Yeah, is important.
Now again, I went on this kind of literary tour that I was launched into after reading what my buddy wrote,
because it reminded me of so many other things that I've heard and so many other things that I've read.
And so another great viewpoint comes from Eugene Sledge and he wrote the book with the old breed, which is a classic.
And we covered it podcast number 10. If you want to stop now, go back and listen to podcast 10 with Eugene Sledge with Eugene Sledge with the old breed.
It's just incredible account of what he went through in World War II in the Pacific Theater with the Marine Corps.
But he wrote another book after that. And the next book, the wrote, was called China Marine.
And it talks about what they did when the war ended.
You know, and the time he spent sort of pacifying in any country, spent some time in China.
And then it talks about what it was like when he got back to America, back to Mobile Alabama.
And it's definitely impactful, definitely impactful. So here's what he came to came home to.
And I'm going to pick up where his dad, he's talking to his dad and his dad was a physician during World War I.
And that's one of the reasons his dad was, if you remember Eugene Sledge couldn't get in the Marine Corps at first, because he had,
I think he had a heart murmur or something like that. And so they didn't let him in.
And his dad was kind of okay with that.
And the reason he was okay with that was because he had seen what the boys from World War I had come home like,
not only physically, but also psychologically.
Guys had the shell shock, which is horrible when you see it.
And again, I've said this before going YouTube and look at videos of World War I's shell shock.
It's horrifying to look at. And that's what Eugene Sledge's father had seen.
And so when his son couldn't go in the Marine Corps, he was kind of like, okay, you know, you can serve in other ways,
and Eugene Sledge wanted to serve.
And so Eugene Sledge, he actually got a waiver and I guess the heart murmur had faded enough for
they didn't notice it until we got the Marine Corps.
But when he comes back, his dad, his dad is talking to him and I think it's a good place to pick up.
His dad called him Fritz. That was Eugene Sledge's nickname at home.
So here we go. Eugene Sledge's dad talking to him Fritz. He said,
I know you've been through an awful experience.
I know that nobody had it worse than the first Marine Division,
except maybe those on baton and those others who were imprisoned.
I'm tremendously proud of both you and Edward.
You did your duty under terrifying conditions, but you survived in one piece,
granted with some terrible memories you'll have to learn to live with.
But take my advice.
First, never become and bitter because many other men had safe, comfortable war assignments,
all too often obtained through political influence.
That's the way of cowards in this world.
Two, never feel sorry for yourself because of what you endured.
On the contrary, feel fiercely proud that you served with the finest
and fought against the fiercest enemy and lived to tell the tale.
Three, if you ever drink alcohol, do it in moderation.
Alcohol can be a wonderful escape from bad memories,
but it is addictive. We'll make you act the fool and ultimately ruin you.
To the last remark, I replied, I know father,
I've seen that happen to good buddies,
recalling some of the worst cases in China.
He replied, yes, and I've treated some of the nicest people who were ruined by the stuff.
But I can't cure them. They must have willpower.
So really straightforward warning about alcohol,
check about not feeling bitter towards people that didn't maybe do or go through what he went through.
And be proud of what you did.
Now, this is, again, just another piece that they actually,
in the HBO miniseries, the Pacific,
they kind of portray this part of Eugene's alleged coming home.
But it's worth reading his account of it back to the book.
As my life settled down somewhat, I began to think of my future.
Rather hastily, I decided to go to Auburn,
then called Alabama Polytechnic Institute and Major in Business.
I'll never forget my first day at Auburn.
I was in the Registrar's office in Sanford Hall.
The big room was crowded with long lines of entering students,
standing in front of tables behind which clerks were noticing,
or noting each student's college credits from service schools,
determining which might transfer to Auburn.
There was a loud hub hub of voices with about a hundred people in the room.
Some men, mostly air core veterans, had been to various technical schools,
and Auburn gave them two years credit.
All veterans were excused from ROTC and physical education.
When I stepped up to the table at the head of the line,
a pretty brunette about my age, probably a student's wife,
asked pleasantly what schools I had attended in the Marine Corps.
I recited all the weapons and tactic schools we had in training.
She became more and more disconcerting as she looked in vain
on her checklist for anything remotely resembling what I was saying.
Finally, in desperation, she slammed her pencil on the table
and said in the loud, exasperated voice,
didn't the Marine Corps teach you anything.
A gas brand threw the crowd and you could have heard a pin drop.
I didn't lose my temper, but I realized that,
like most civilians, ward this lady, met John Wayne,
or the sweet musical South Pacific.
Slowly placing my hands on the table,
aware that all eyes were upon us.
I said in a loud, calm voice, lady,
there was a killing war.
The Marine Corps taught me how to kill japs and try to survive.
Now, if that don't fit into any academic course,
I'm sorry, but some of us had to do the killing.
And most of my buddies got killed or wounded.
She was speechless.
There were many red faces,
among the obvious non-combatants present.
I doubt if there were half a dozen interim figures
or tankers present.
She recovered her composure, looked me in the eye
and said, I'm so sorry, I apologize, I didn't understand.
I told her, she was very kind and I did not mean to,
I said, you didn't, you didn't, you made me think.
So I got credit for ROTC and PE and the room returned to normal.
The young lady wished me a long and happy life,
I thanked her and left.
I felt like some sort of an alien.
And I realized that this sort of thing would confront me
the rest of my days.
The war had been so momentous to me.
I couldn't imagine anyone not sharing that view
or appreciating the hell I had suffered.
In fact, I was totally unprepared for how rapidly
most Americans who did not experience combat
would forget about the war, the evils we faced
and how incredibly tough it had been for us to defeat
the Japanese and the Nazis.
I didn't realize how swiftly most Americans would once again
take their freedom for granted.
Clearly that applies to veterans and people that have been
overseas fighting and you come back and it's like no one even knows
that you were gone.
It's like another thing, you get that passage of time
when you go away for two or three months
and you go back to where you're from
and it seems like, oh, how long you've been gone for three months?
Oh, it seems like people think you were gone for a couple days
or a couple weeks.
Yeah.
It happens at the gym.
Like I'll go into the gym and someone else, oh, where you been?
You know, I think I haven't seen him in a week
and he says, oh, I tore my ACL.
I've been gone for eight months.
You know, it's one of those moments
and that happens with war, too.
Guys go away.
They come back every time just went by.
And that can be frustrating
because in those eight months or six months or 14 months
that someone's deployed overseas fighting for their lives
and they come home and that other person didn't even notice
they were gone.
Yeah.
I mean, I feel bad when somebody had an ACL tear
and I didn't know it.
You know, I feel kind of bad.
Yeah.
And I haven't seen you for eight months.
You know, I feel like I feel bad about it.
And I'm sure that person's saying, you know,
Jocquajice, we used to train all the time
and you didn't even realize that I was gone.
It was gone for a week.
Right?
Meaning anything.
Kind of a, yeah, exactly.
Well, imagine how that feels to a veteran
that's coming back from war.
And that is, this isn't, this isn't like some odd case.
This is the norm.
That's actually the norm.
Yeah.
I mean, it's different for the direct family.
That's waiting for the individual to come home.
Then those six month deployments or 14 months deployment
seem like an eternity.
But for that casual person or that acquaintance that you don't know that well,
they're thinking, oh, oh, did you, where are you been?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah, I was overseas fighting.
And he's got the way he kind of wraps up this book and is
Epilogue.
And again, you know, this is another book that we'll probably explore at some point in detail.
But going to the way that the topics that he brings up as he closes out and reflections on how the war impacted him.
Psychologically.
Here we go back to the book.
Looking back over the momentous events of 50 years ago, when I was a Marine, he woke strong emotions.
The years immediately after the war were the hardest.
As Paul Fussle remarked, the combat veteran not only has to survive his experience.
He asked to learn to live with it the rest of his life.
He was so right.
For the first 20 odd years after my return, nightmares occurred frequently, waking me either crying or yelling always sweating and with a pounding heart.
Some nights, I delayed going to bed, dreading the inevitable nightmares.
The comrades wrote me that similar troubles drove many of them to drink and to the ensuing misery of alcoholism, which they beat with sheer self-discipline.
Eventually, the war left me with a deep appreciation for the simple things in life.
Putting on a clean pair of dry socks is one of the greatest luxuries I know.
A shave, a warm shower, and sleeping in a sheaded bed are two.
When it is raining, especially on an autumn day, I look out the window at the falling drops.
And my thoughts sometimes drift back to those awful days on Okinawa, snafu and eye bailing out a muddy foxhole with an old helmet, shivering in a torrential cold rain.
And both of us, cringing, as each Japanese shell came screaming into the corpse's true area to explode with a deafening crash.
I quickly bring my mind, the focus of my mind back to the present and thank God it enough to suffer hardship and misery again.
And oh, what a blessing to be relieved of constant terror.
My love of the outdoors restrained the affected by the war.
The way I looked at my surroundings was altered. My view of the outdoors had taken a more analytical perspective of its features as military terrain, likely areas for the placement of various foxholes,
the company's 60mm mortars to cover defilids, the light machine guns, so as to achieve crossfires along the company front fields of fire and possible avenues of enemy attacker ambush.
This change in outlook was intense in the early years home, but I cleared my mind of it by concentrating on plant and animal species present or probable.
But the old combat view of things still creeps in sometimes after more than 50 years.
And that's something that definitely, every guy I know that's been overseas, every guy, everything we look at we see to some kind of military terrain in a city for me, especially it's in the city, because I did most of my combat was urban combat and that's so I'm looking at all the time, not only on the highway, on the buildings when you're sitting around,
you're sitting in a hotel room looking out and the street, everything that you look at, you look at from a combat perspective. Now he was outdoorsman.
And he goes back, he gets back from the war and he's going hunting. And this is the first time that he's gone deer hunting after the war. And he's out hunting with a group of people, but he gets dropped off in one spot by himself.
They have a boat, it's by river, they take a boat, they drop them off alone. And here we go back to the book.
Two beautiful doze appeared, walking briskly through the water as they exited the woods and stopped at the far edge of the pond about 30 yards away.
They kept looking toward the area of the drive and moving their ears to capture every sound possible.
More loud sloshing of water and two doze and a large buck came up to the first doze and stopped. They finally looked in my direction.
I remained still and since the wind was blowing toward me, the deer could not pick up my scent. They stood motion, motionless, staring at me and standing up in the clump of cane.
They seemed more concerned with the bang of the hounds than with me though.
Because of the way I held my rifle, I could see my wristwatch so I timed the action or inaction of the deer.
One of the doze picked up an acorn at the edge of the pond and ate it.
The buck was large and had a fine set of antlers, the eight points gleaming in the light.
Slowly I raised my rifle and sited in on his chest.
No. He was too fine to creature to kill.
I had murdered one of his kind that morning, so I did not need to venison.
Slowly I lowered my rifle.
The buck remained motionless, motionless.
His instincts probably told him no shape, such as he saw in the cane was natural.
Deer, like most mammals, have very poor sight except for detecting motion and are primarily colorblind.
For 15 minutes we stared at each other.
A shot in the air would send them springing away into the woods, but a shot would frighten them, which I had no desire to do.
The deer seemed more curious than afraid they kept sniffing the air, which apparently bore no scent of danger.
I had on waterproof boots, but was beginning to get cold.
Finally I needed to move a little.
I knew that as soon as I did they would bolt, so I whistled softly.
Every big ear turned quickly in my direction.
I whistled softly again, all the deer slowly lowered their ears turned, went sloshing on the higher ground and ambled into the woods.
Looking back at me once or twice.
The whole episode is one of my most cherished memories.
When Jim picked me up on the boat he asked if I had seen a deer.
I said no, not wanting to tell him I had seen five.
When we returned to camp several people asked me what I had seen, and I reported a few squirrels and some wood ducks.
If I told those eager hunters what had really happened, they would have elected to throw me in the river.
Gus didn't allow any drinking during hunting hours, so after the guns were all unloaded and put in their cases,
the bottled spirits were brought forth, and the party years all had a ball.
Each of the weary hounds went to the fence yard, jumped up on the raised platforms, and went into the barrel for a nap.
The platform was raised as protection against high water, as well as alligators, which have a special appetite for dog flesh.
We re-cross the river after a while and scattered to our homes.
So ended my last deer hunt.
With the memory of that beautiful buck and his harem down the river. I have wondered how long he survived.
I am not anti-hunting, as long as it is managed by wildlife experts.
Most game animals outproduced their food supply, and since civilization has destroyed most of the natural predators,
starvation results and thus populations are controlled by game management overseeing proper hunting practices.
But the terrified eyes of that spike buck I shot are something I'd like to forget.
I have felt the same terror when being shot at, so hunting is not for me.
World War II gave me a convenient measuring stick for duty, courage, terror, friendship, patience, horror, endurance, compassion, discomfort, grief, and pain.
That has remained with me daily.
The English poet Robert Graves said World War I affected him in much the same way.
Anyone who is not suffered the prolonged fear and limitless fatigue that was combat, that was the combat infantryman's lot, might find this difficult to comprehend.
Over 50 years later, I look back on the war, as though it were some giant killing machine into which we were thrown to endure fear to the brink of insanity.
Some fell over the brink, and physical fatigue to near collapse.
Those who survived, on hurt, will never forget and cannot forget the many friends lost in their prime and the many articles of civilization they ruthlessly destroyed.
As I look back, some facts are quite clear.
Japan's sneak bombing of Pearl Harbor destroyed many American lives, ships, and planes.
We had no choice but to destroy Imperial Japan.
The A-Bomb ended that war.
It saved millions of American lives by preventing a murderous invasion of Japan, and the probable destruction of a suicidal Japanese population.
The Japanese soldier was a bloodthirsty foe in blood with the code of bushydo.
If we had not defeated an army that thought it was unbeatable, who knows how many American cities might have shared the horrid rape of man king.
In looking back, I'm still amazed I escaped the killing machine.
Why I never fell killed or wounded in that storm of steel thrown at us countless times still astonishes me.
I'm proud of the number of the enemy I fired on and hit with my mortar, rifle, or Tommy Gun, and regret the ones I missed.
There is no mellowing for me.
That would be to forgive all the atrocities the Japanese committed against millions of Asians and thousands of Americans.
To mellow is to forget.
Each man who survived, I am certain, was plucked from the mire of death by the Almighty.
And in this, I feel humble and grateful.
Socrates said, no thy self.
I do.
The war taught me.
This is how he closes out that book and the war taught me as well.
And the war still teaches me.
And that's why I read about war.
And why I talk about war and that's why so much of this podcast is about war because war can teach us.
But it's not only war that teaches us life.
Life teaches us.
But that's only if we are humble and open minded enough and attentive enough to watch, then listen and learn from it.
Not only from our own paths and the things we go through, but from what we see other people do.
It's a teacher.
Life is a teacher.
And yet, and you see this all the time, there are people that do not learn from life.
And they make the same mistakes over and over and over again, just completely unaware of the lessons that are,
that are smacking them in the face, smacking them in the face.
And I think that's where you have to flip the switch in your brain that that hardship,
that you're facing, that trial, that tribulation embedded in that misery is a lesson.
To teach you.
And it's only a lesson if you're willing to learn from it.
You know, your hand life is a hard teacher.
But do your best to listen and to learn from it.
You know, speaking of learning, I last Facebook live got some good questions.
And I do a little rough transition.
No, man.
But it was just kind of going through all those different people's books.
And you can see what war did to them.
And you can see the similarities with all of them that human beings put in really stressful situations.
Human beings put in life.
They have similar outcomes.
I mean, there's commonalities in it.
And I think the more we look for those commonalities in the more individual you, me,
the more I look for these commonalities in different people's experiences, the better off I'm going to be.
Right? The more I'm going to be able to understand what's happening to the world around me or to the people around me.
And that's the one thing that I think is really important is seeing, you know, when you start talking about the life lessons hit you in the face.
It's always, if you're the person that's getting hit.
That's the, even though you're the person that stands to gain the most from from understanding what's going on around you.
You're also the person that has the hardest time recognizing it.
It's just like when you're sitting outside of an MMA match or an MMA fight.
And you as the coach as the cornerman, you can see what's happening.
And the guy that's getting punched in the face, a lot of times they don't see what's hitting them.
And they don't think of it as a lesson.
They don't, they're not taking anything positive away from it.
They're getting punched in the face.
And it's not until someone says, hey, the guy is hitting you with a left hook.
You're, you know, you're, you're dropping your hands or whatever so that the person can make a correction.
They're not learned from it.
They're getting hit.
And that's what happens to a lot of us in life is we're getting punched in the face, punch in the face, punch in the face.
And we don't recognize, we can't step back.
We can't detach from being in that situation where we can actually assess what's going on and say, oh, okay.
I see what's going on here.
I see what I see what changes that got to make.
That's why, and then what happens is, this is what happens.
What happens is you say, oh, echo.
I see you're going through some hard times.
So I go up to you and say, hey, echo, this is what you're doing, this is what you should change.
And what happens big ego flare up from echo.
You don't know how I feel.
You don't know what's going on.
You don't know what it's like.
You don't know what it feels like getting punched in the face.
But I'm just trying to help you.
You don't get it.
So what we do are instinct is to put up defenses, even when somebody's trying to help us out.
Right.
So that means you got to get good at trying to help people out too because we already know that everyone gets defensive.
And that everyone's ego flare up.
And that when you talk to your friend that's either a vet coming home and he's facing problems or someone that's having a hard time at work or someone that's having a hard time relationship or someone that's having a hard time with whatever addiction's gotten a hold of them.
All those things you got to learn how to how to talk to those people in a way that you're not being offensive to them.
Which is hard to do because we all take offense whenever somebody tells us that we're doing something wrong.
We're all offended by it.
Even the most positive, helpful person.
Your own your mom.
Right.
Your mom comes and tell you something you get offended.
You're right.
Your best friend comes and says, hey, you know, you're doing this.
You're going down the wrong path here.
You don't know nothing about my path.
You.
So having that detachment so you can see yourself and then having an open mind when somebody tries to help you.
And then when you are trying to help someone trying to do it in a way that you don't attack their ego.
Those are some good things to think about as you're going through life trying to take lessons away from it.
So crazy.
I apologize again.
I apologize to everything.
You know what's like what you ever hear people say.
If I knew then what I know now, that's the, of course, right?
Of course.
The, the jacked up thing is there's all kinds of people that know now.
That tried to tell you then.
Yeah.
There's so many places to get this information.
You're saying if I knew then what I knew now, well, then guess what?
All kinds of people were trying to help you.
Yeah.
We're trying to help me.
We're trying to tell me what to do.
I wasn't listening to any of my ego is too big.
I know what I'm doing.
I'm the smartest person in the world.
You don't understand the situation.
It's going to be different for me.
My life is special.
My life is different.
You don't get all those things.
All those things that we say.
So if we just had an open mind to listen to what people were trying to tell us.
Yeah.
Or or at a minimum.
Have an open mind to listen to what life was trying to tell us.
Hard.
It's bloody because it's so true.
Like how you, when you, when you say,
if I knew then what I know now.
And you say it, well, back then there was people yelling at you.
Yeah.
Scream your metaphor.
You know, right there, giving you that knowledge.
So you could have known then what you know now.
Kind of think.
Yeah.
Then you got to go one step deeper and go,
Dang.
Well, I should have known then to listen to you guys.
You know, I know to listen to you guys now.
Kind of think.
Man, it's like someone's like this borderline impossible scenario.
It is a hard scenario.
There's some things in life.
And this is so unfortunate that you have to learn only from life.
It's all these stupid things that people go through.
And you just, you just, you watch them go through it.
Yeah.
And again, I talk about this story where you, you, you, you, you get someone that's going down a downward spiral.
You pick the downward spiral that they're on.
Yeah.
Whether it's their relationship that they're in as a disaster.
Whether they're getting addicted to whatever you want to get addicted to.
Yeah.
You know, whether that's work, whether that's alcohol, whether that's drugs,
whether that's gambling, whatever thing you want to be addicted to.
You pick the downward spiral that you want to jump on.
The person that's on that downward spiral.
They don't see it.
And everybody that's outside of the spiral can absolutely identify it and tell them.
And they don't want to get off.
Yeah.
I know, hey, addictions are horrible, right?
And that's why they're called addictions.
And that's why people ride that downward spiral until it destroys them.
Yeah.
Like Eugene's sledges dad talked about.
It's like, hey, it'll ruin you.
Yeah.
The only way out is will power.
The only way out.
And then Eugene says, if you've got to defeat it with pure self-discipline.
Yeah.
You can, you can have fun little games with your mind and win.
That's their little chess matches with your mind with alcohol.
I know that from experience.
And when we first started doing the podcast, I didn't realize that you drank as much as you drank at that time.
Yeah.
I was like, because we were recording.
And you poured one out.
And I was like, what are you doing?
I'm like in here to, you know, get after it.
And you're going to have a drink during this?
Yeah.
Well, in my slight defense.
One drink wouldn't really affect anything.
And I know this because other people tell me this and I feel this where even if I'll get hammered this back then, you couldn't really tell that people would be like,
oh, you don't even seem at all mean on the inside.
But yeah.
And here's another thing.
And this can apply to a lot of people.
I think not everybody, but maybe some people were wearing, you know, how I was a kind of where I would only drink at home when I did work.
I used to think that I worked with bizarre things.
Yeah.
When I looked at the textbook definition of an alcoholic,
drinking at home alone while you're working.
No, I'm sure it's one of the potential symptoms, but straight up not potential.
When I went to like the bar or something like hang out,
I didn't really go to the club.
I mean, after I stopped working with clubbing or doing it.
But, you know, to go hang out and stuff, I drink way less.
I wouldn't even really want to drink that much.
I don't want to go work, and that's what I would drink, but like I said, I work every single night and for a long time too.
So, it was like every night for like years and years.
But the only problem that it would kind of create were these kind of covert problems.
Like the next day I wasn't as driven to do much.
I'd work out, go train, I do all the stuff that I've been doing for whatever years.
But, you know, like how you learn something new to bring, you know,
XYZ element of your life to the next level kind of thing.
It would really get in the way of that.
So, so you're kind of staying at level like three.
Yeah, but here's the thing, in certain ways, I was learning a lot because you learn a lot.
When I work and stuff, when I do, you know, all these programs and do video stuff, you learn a lot while you do it.
So, man, I was learning and getting better and my stuff.
So, in a way, the problems, like I said, weren't real obvious.
And then after a while, like, after time goes, you know what it was? What really brought the problems to light was for the hang with you.
Because you'd be like, okay, we're here. Now we're going here.
To this week, we're on like a whole different thing.
And I'm like, man, I can hardly keep up with Jocco.
So, at night, I'd be like, oh, yeah, I'm keeping up with Jocco, but the next is them thinking when you're doing stuff early in the morning.
You're doing stuff during the day. You're letting me know, okay, now we got this and I'm like,
Dang, I just basically've been recovering all day.
Because I don't feel that good. I didn't work out.
So, yeah, as we used to record the podcast at night, you just laid it night.
And so we'd get down at one o'clock in the morning.
Yeah. And yeah, I'd have to get after it in the morning and you'd not have to.
Yeah, exactly. Right. So, it's weird.
When you do that routine, you get this weird second.
I think your body just gets ready to do work and stuff.
You know how you do something over and over your body.
You just kind of just accommodate the schedule.
So, I was like, at night, I do fine, but during the day, I want to do nothing.
Meanwhile, you're, you know, doing all this stuff and I was like, man,
I did not mention all the things that we talked about.
Yeah. I was like, oh, I got tricked by my brain.
Meanwhile, at the expense of my whole life, aside from those, you know,
for the other things that sucks for you is that because you were kind of,
because the problems were covert.
There wasn't any, I'm assuming that there wasn't any external people trying to help you
and be like, hey, I go, you shouldn't drink at night.
Because you were still maintaining an acceptable standard of humanity.
So, and you, you're taking care of your wife, you're taking care of your young daughter.
And so you're doing what you're responsible to do.
What your responsibilities are, we're being handled.
They're just being handled at level three and level three was, okay,
maybe people thought that was where you were at, you know?
Actually, in this may sound better, but this is worse.
They were being held, at level essentially level ten.
Everything like, I care, everything I cared about was being handled.
Everything like to the really high level, like hanging with the kids, talking with them.
So my wife would go to bed earlier than me.
So then you'd say, like, working.
Working, drinking, I could still wake up.
I'd be messed, you know, not that, like, happy to be awake,
but without one in every, that would never show dealing with other people.
And then there would be times where I feel, if I was just too,
and really just, I just felt tired. That's what it was.
I didn't feel hung over.
You know, this is actually brings up a good point.
Is that I think a lot of times people spend,
because they're, because they're achieving a minimum standard,
or maybe even a medium standard, or a solid standard in your case,
from your perspective.
To me was, I was working.
Yeah, you're working, you're getting your job done.
Yeah, making, making your family, and doing workouts, like hard, good workouts during the day.
But everything else tells, like, oh, my post.
I can't do this.
But I bet there's always, so basically, if you're not looking at yourself with a critical eye,
you can get by with a lot as a person, as a human being.
If you're not looking, if you're not looking at yourself with a critical eye,
you are going to get, you're not going to reach your potential.
Because you're not going to push yourself as hard as you possibly can,
which is, you know, the MMA fighters.
When I was training a lot of MMA fighters, I would tell them, listen,
you can train without a coach, and you can train to, let's, let's say you're super disciplined.
You can get to, like, 84%.
This is an interesting dichotomy.
You can get to 84% of your max output of your pushing yourself.
A coach is then going to take you to the next level,
and he's going to get you to 98%.
But this is what's interesting.
The last 2% goes back on the individual.
So let's say I'm training you for jujitsu tournament.
If you just trained yourself for the jujitsu tournament, you'd get to 82% of your potential.
Because that means, because you get to the last round, and you look at your,
you know, what I'm probably, I might get hurt this round, so I take it off for.
You know, you're going to make all those excuses.
You're not going to hold the line, right?
Now, if I'm training you, now we're going, okay, okay, okay,
you got to be here.
Yep, echoing, you're going to do two more rounds.
Hey, you're done with your rounds.
You're going to do some burpees.
You know, I'm going to make you do that stuff.
So that's what a coach does.
But then you take the last, that's going to get you to 98%.
But the last 2% is back to you because I can't make you do the burpees.
As hard as you can.
I can make you do them, but I can't make you do them as hard as you can.
I can't, I can make you do another round on the mat,
but I can't make you do it as hard as you can.
I can't make you try moves that you don't feel like trying.
Yeah.
So it takes a little teamwork in those situations.
And that's something I definitely saw with MMA fighters is, yeah, without a coach,
they're not going to push themselves hard.
Yeah.
With a coach, they'll push themselves harder.
But if you're going to be a champion, you got to get that last 2% yourself.
Yeah.
And what's crazy is you can kind of make someone your coach even if they don't know it.
You know how like, where, I mean, I think you'd kind of know that you're kind of the coach,
you know, as far as, because your coach is probably anyone who interacts with you and
you're in a regular basis, they're going to kind of, at the very least look at you and
know that you wake up early and get a lot done for a reason, by the way.
So they know that.
So it's kind of like, okay, I can follow suit.
You know, I can take cues from Jocco in this way and I can improve it.
Doesn't have to be in the exact things that you're doing, but just in stuff that they do.
So I think if you actively do that, where, I mean, I'm speaking from a place of supreme luxury,
by the way, in regards to this, where, you know, I'm like, you're talking about it directly to me every single week.
And I'm like, yes, sir, and I go back and try, you know, trying to best so-play to my stuff.
Of course, but you can do that even if you watch someone on, I don't know, online or something or you read it.
You know how people do like blogs and stuff like that, you know, if you're like a subscriber to a specific blog and you really like,
you know, to the way they do things or whatever, you can, you can get that same effect in a smaller way, I think.
But you can definitely, but you just, you gotta be like conscious of it, though,
and how you say like, you have to have your own self, like, it's self-discipline for sure, but what did you say?
You just said it.
Self-awareness.
Look at yourself with a critical eye.
Yeah.
You gotta do that, and here's the opposite of that.
In my opinion, and from what I've seen, the enemy of looking at yourself with a critical eye is being good at justifying stuff.
Yeah.
Especially, you know, I can hardly say smart people are dangerous in that way, but they're really good at justifying things.
Because yeah, rationalizing something and justifying something is exactly what it is.
It is exactly what that says.
It's justifying it.
Yeah.
Are you justified in XYZ and if you are, you are.
So if you can justify something to yourself and you're good at it, it's okay.
In your mind is literally okay.
It's not a good situation, but it's very dangerous.
It's a very dangerous.
Critical eye.
Yeah.
That's the critical eye.
That's a good eye.
Call yourself out.
Yeah.
If you want to reach your maximum potential and move from level three.
To at least level eight.
Yeah.
Man.
So what I was saying is that got some pretty good little rapid fire questions.
You know, I didn't want to take a bunch of time on them, but I just want to at least address some of the questions that came on the Facebooky live.
Sure.
I've got a stack of questions that have been coming in on Facebook and Twitter and those two primarily.
Is where the big questions come into.
And I've got to stack those that we'll get around to in a Q&A at some point.
And also a lot of questions that get asked right now.
Heard them before.
So if you have a question, if you haven't listened to the podcast at this point, you might want to just go back and listen to the podcast.
Because the question that you have about how many hours are sleep at night and what time are going to go to bed and you know those kind of things.
They're in the podcast and you don't.
I'm not going to talk about them too much anymore.
You can have like a, you're watching Jeff Pretty.
There would have been something cool about stopping the podcast at number 25 and said that's it.
So you get and just because we addressed a bunch of stuff and then just let it marinate for a while.
Like that would be season one.
You know how they do that.
That's a good idea. Yeah, we should have done that. We should have done season one and then paused and let people really have marinated that first season and then season two comes and boom.
See, I like that.
You wouldn't, you wouldn't never let that happen.
That's what I think.
Well, it depends because it strategically, it's a good idea.
It's a strategically good idea.
Yeah, I think it is because also you're going to let that stuff marinate and then you're going to get good feedback on a bulk of work that people can then say, hey, this was a good area of topics that you discussed.
Please read dress and hit the following concerns.
Right, right.
And so we could attack those those concerns in such a manner.
Yeah, I guess that's one way.
Here, let me, I think this is, I'm speaking selfishly here.
I think this is a big deal where even if you repeat yourself, even if you answer the same question, literally the same question over and over again, it's like, you know when you go to school or college or whatever.
Yeah, and you get a review every week.
Yeah, I think that.
Yeah, it is.
And you just do the best example for me is, do you just do this?
I never, I never absorb a move in the first try.
Yeah, you got to give, you got to teach me 12 different times.
I learned one 12 foot video each time.
Yeah, and then 12 times later, I know all move.
Perfect analogy.
Yeah.
If you, if you, jockels telling echo, yeah, hey, don't complain, like don't complain, problems all.
Don't, who cares about how you feel care about the objective kind of thing.
Yeah.
You told me that one time even two times.
I'm be like, cool, that sounds dope.
Man, I need to do that.
Yeah.
And then next week, next month, six months later, do you think that's sticking with me?
Maybe resonated with me, maybe not, but no, but if you, yeah, if you're saying it every week to the point where it's,
like, I don't even hear your words.
I just know it as, as the concept is just in there.
That's when like, when I hear people complaining, that's a big red flag violation.
Just sticks out like a sore thumb.
So I'll see someone blaming someone.
That's the reason it sticks out because.
So back to this idea of having different seasons.
If it was season one, people would, the recommendations are go back and listen to them all again.
So you'd get reiterated on the exact points.
Yeah.
That's good in theory, but it doesn't work.
I think, I don't know.
That's a, I don't know.
Maybe we could 100.
And then we do, that season one.
Season one is two straight years of podcasts.
Yeah.
Yeah, that could work.
Because you know how?
Because this, the concept you need to see.
And then we take one week off and then we start season two.
Oh, he cut it.
I don't know.
Anyway, I like the way you've been doing it.
To be honest, this is my input.
One guy.
This is my input.
Well, you do have 50% of the vote here.
Apparently.
All right.
Well, let's get to these questions.
Yeah.
Like I said, these are quite questions.
These are like, yeah.
I like them, no.
Mm-hmm.
Okay.
First question.
I'm going to read these just how they're listed.
Yeah.
Then we'll go to, you know, slimming and or running for BJJ conditioning.
Question mark.
Yes.
Swimming and running are good for conditioning.
I would recommend that you use sprints slash interval training for both.
And I think that's going to get you where you want to be.
Also, it's good to have that good base cardio.
Yeah.
So that's good too.
But yeah, they're both good.
The best conditioning for DJ2, DJ2.
The shortfall of that is that you can sometimes push, you never mind.
You can push yourself harder in with burpees or with some kind of met con or swimming or running.
You know, if you go to sprints, you should be breathing.
You should be able to make yourself breathe, harder doing sprints than you can.
Doing rounds of DJ2 for conditioning.
Yeah.
Now the rounds of conditioning, in DJ2 are more important.
But if you want to push yourself extra hard, you got to do something else.
Yes.
So swimming and running for DJ2 conditioning, yes, they're good.
Sprints.
Yeah.
And I agree.
Obviously, as far as DJ2, I just learned this.
And I watched it.
It was on a Marcelo Garcia video randomly on a no where he was like, okay, I don't do any other external exercise.
Well, for conditioning, whatever for DJ2.
I used DJ2, so it's conditioning.
But I don't just do regular DJ2.
This is how I do it.
And he demonstrated it.
And he was going against, he's obviously a high, high, the highest level of black belt.
So he grabs a guy.
And the guy is blue belt, I think.
And he's like, okay, this is how you do it for conditioning.
He's like, go, we're going to fight.
We're going to blow for whatever.
How many minutes they go.
And he's like, boom, boom, boom, he's got one move.
Next move, move.
He's just going, all of he's not even finishing moves.
He's going to the next one.
Then he'll finish, then he'll start again.
And he's going, you could tell he's going hard.
He's essentially going as hard as he would if he had only 30 seconds.
45 seconds left on a high level competition.
That's how hard and fast he's going.
And he's like, okay, any explains, you're just, you're just, your focus is going from move to move as fast and as hard as you can.
And you're breathing it all this stuff.
And that's how you get conditioning with your judo.
And I was like, dang man, that's good because think about it.
Just like how you said when you, at least so you have six rounds to go in regular judo training.
Six, it's so, you're just focusing on doing your judo and with judo is energy conservation.
All these things that are anti-conditioning really are.
So you can get into good spots.
Let me check out one step even more granularly.
If you take six rounds, the last 30 seconds of each round.
It's, and I talked to Taylor and Andy about this and I said, hey guys, when we get to the last 30 seconds,
there should be no cruising allowed at all.
You should be going for the finish.
And you should be going for the finish.
Like if you got 30 seconds left, go for the finish.
If you got 30 seconds after your no bad position, go for the escape as hard as you can.
Burn yourself out.
That's a huge difference between how you can just go into, I'm guilty as charged.
Because like you said, part of judo is energy conservation.
So for me, I'm really good at conserving energy.
Yeah.
You can be cross-side mounted on me and you're not going to make, and I know, I know.
I'll be arrogant right now.
If you mounted me, or you got across the side on me,
and we had one minute left, you cannot submit me.
You know what I mean?
You cannot submit me.
I'm really good.
I've had Dean Lister, you know, mounted on side control for the last 22 years.
Yeah.
Right.
So I can defend myself well.
So if you have one minute, now if I gave you five minutes, that's story.
My people, you've one minute, that's how much time is left.
So I can completely go into cruise mode.
Yeah.
And that's the wrong answer.
You're going to try and get, if you're trying to survive for some reason.
Okay.
Well, then yeah, utilize the conservation skills.
But if you're trying to get some conditioning work and prepare yourself for a aggressive
tournament style situations, you best put out.
Yeah.
And that's why it kind of, in a way going back to what you said about having a coach is where the coach
will be like, hey, shark tank.
Yeah.
You know something like this.
They kind of avoid your capability to treat judo as just regular judo to.
And the energy conservation efficiency, all this stuff.
You know, that's when a lot of people ask me, what should I do for my first tournament is in three days.
What should I do?
What should I look out for?
And what I tell people is that, okay, the person that you go against and a judo tournament is going to go
harder against you than anyone has gone against you in the gym period in the story.
It is a whole, another level of competition that, you know, white belt versus white belt.
The first time you go in a tournament as a white belt, the person you're going against is going
harder than anyone has gone against you in the gym period.
Yeah.
You can't even when we would have MMA fighters fighting in the UFC.
It's near impossible to get to get the training partners to go as hard against that guy as, as
their opponent is going to go.
It's just, it's just not there.
There's no legitimate fight.
Now occasionally, you know, you get guys that are really good training partners and they'll push you,
but that's why we do Shark Tank.
Yeah.
Because it's hard for me to get, you know, four guys lined up to roll with you and everybody's going to go as hard as they possibly can.
Everyone's going to match what you match a little bit.
They're going to use what they have to use and that's so true men and those guys I watch out for.
There's a bunch of those elements in there when you're in a training scenario because you don't have the,
you don't have that background.
Hum of fist means everything like a competition, you know?
So, yeah.
I mean, there's actually no who does go super hard as people that have never trained you to before.
First time in the gym, it's not a competition, but that's the first thing.
The real feeling of the competition.
Yeah.
So true.
I mean, I've been on the weird, how crazy it is that you just take a guy that completely believes that they can kick everyone's ass.
Have you bring them the Jiu-Jitsu gym and they just get destroyed?
Yeah.
Isn't that crazy?
It's a crazy Jiu-Jitsu crazy thing.
Yeah.
It's an ego checker.
That's kind of what I was thinking and something with kind of MMA, I think Jiu-Jitsu and MMA,
you know, kind of the same deal where it's kind of real, you know, where, you know, you're talking about, you know, veterans come home and they come to everyday life and you people have no idea really what extreme stuff is, you know,
you're walking around just not knowing.
Meanwhile, what they've been through is just so extreme and they come back and they know they have that basis for comparison.
Yeah.
And, you know, you get the stutters like, you know, mouth in off to the guy, remember?
He goes, didn't, it didn't war teach you anything?
Oh, yeah.
And they don't know.
They don't know nothing, you know.
Give them one day, give that teacher one day with, you know, it's just a big eye opener.
So that's kind of how I feel with, like, Jiu-Jitsu and MMA and stuff.
And when you go out and when you hear people talking, you know, like, I just don't, I kicked that guy's ass, you know, kind of thing and you're like, oh my gosh, yeah, give you go to the gym one day with, do two rounds.
I know, no more than three rounds because one round people think you got lucky.
I know that's the two rounds they go, well, that might have been luck, but and then after you submit someone three times they're like, okay, that there's something I don't understand here and I want to learn it and give them one ten minute round.
Oh, God.
I just don't just feel like this, I can't do this. I can't, like, it's to the point, especially early on, you get a ten minute round and you know, because when you're going against someone there's that you're locked into it.
You have to straight up know what a normal person isn't going to, there will be destroyed after because they're going to be in a competition, why about mode going as hard as they can.
Again, someone that's not using any strength or energy at all who's destroying them and submitting them every 30 seconds.
Man, the judge.
But yeah, the run it, what I did like about running like, you know, three four miles, it what I found that that provided was, you know, when, you know,
one will take take down battles and no one's getting each other.
I felt that it really kept me going. Like, just being on your feet doing like low intensity pushing and I really felt that it helped that.
Yeah, agree.
Check next question. Next, what advice can you give on pushups and bench press for shoulder and pack injuries slash recovery?
Okay, real quick for all for all injuries, what I say is do what you can and do to get him out hurting yourself.
So for instance, if you can't do a full pushup because it hurts your shoulder, guess what?
Do a quarter pushup and do a bunch of them and just get that range of motion. You're not going to get a full workout, but to get that range of motion, get it working and then maybe in a week you can do a half pushup and then you do half pushups and then in another three weeks you can do a three quarter pushup and then eventually you can do a full pushup and then you start doing your deep pushups in between rings or whatever you get it back.
That's what I do. I do that with every body part that I have that might be injured for whatever reason I do what I can.
Yeah, I do what I can. And specifically, I'll tell you what bench press. I would use dumbbells and not barbell because a barbell locks your arm into position and this is very similar to an Americana or a camera.
Both of those submission moves in GJ2 are based on the same kind of general range of motion as a bench press. There's definitely something different about it and obviously it's you can do bench press. I mean people bench press, you know, hundreds and hundreds of pounds on a barbell. So it can be done, but essentially it is is a similar motion. If you're like with an Americana, which is a submission hold in GJ2.
If you can move where your wrist is, you can it doesn't hurt at all. You know, if you put your wrist up by your head, it doesn't hurt at all. They can person can do an Americana all day once you bring it down. Now it submits you.
And that's the way I look at a barbell. That's why I haven't done barbell bench press and I don't even know how long, especially like a going for max. I haven't done that. I don't even remember last time I did it.
But yeah, for any of these injuries that you might have, do what you can use minimum use the range of motion as you can. Don't re-enter yourself. You know, don't be stupid.
But if it hurts your knee when you get to a half a squat, do a quarter squat or a little, you know, do a three eighth squat. So that's what I recommend to get through those.
Yeah, and it's, um, that's kind of the thing. And I know this from, and I had knee surgery and I had a quick recovery, quick recovery. And the reason that was was because, hey, you got to be smart, just like I was saying, get a smart about your don't, I had knee surgery. I'm not going to go max squat, you know, four of this later, you know, kind of thing.
So yeah, you take it slow, but at the same time, you go, you treat it like a workout. You do seriously. You see, you're serious about it. Yeah, exactly right. So people, some people, I forget when I said, I don't know if I said it on here, but, um, where people would get a shoulder injury, for example.
And part of the rehab is like these stabilization for your core, and then they'll be like, I'm not going to skip that day because I don't feel anything. That's ab muscles. Why would I do that? I have a shoulder injury. So I'm going to skip that and you know, the next day I'll do my little shoulder exercises. I'll go through the motions and that's it.
You treat it like a for real workout like where you stretch it, you kind of push yourself, not in weight, but you know, you do a range of motion, all that stuff, every element of your rehab has to be real important to you, including the consistency.
And if you do it that way, that'll be how. Don't, to me, and I don't know, I don't know the history of the this question or nothing, but bench press for shoulder injuries in recovery.
They, they, they're no, yeah, they don't, that's not a hand in hand thing like so if you if you're concerned about whether you know whether not to get your bench back up after you have a shoulder injury, okay, but they still the bench has nothing to do with recovery from the shoulder injury.
What she do is all the little stable, stable, as they should muscles in there, like these weird motions and stuff like that, a lot of times that's worth another good, another good compliment. This is why it is shoulder injury and it hurt really bad to do regular pushups, but I could do ring pushups because it allows you to move away from those range of merchants that hurt you.
So that's good, but yeah bench press for shoulder not good, I had a guy, a new guy officer and Ramadi who had showed up during deployment and he had a bad shoulder for something.
He's like, hey sir, I was wondering if you can be any good, you know, exercises I could do for for my shoulder, which I have, you know, a bad shoulder.
I was like, yeah, you muscle ups and he kind of looked at me a little strange and then later realized that you know, I was having fun and that's a joke.
He luckily didn't like he'd my advice at the time. He just thought, wow, this guy's a insane.
So a little range was rotators, any rotators stuff like this, like throwing ball motion just controlled and that's been to get you back.
You can recover, you can recover from it. That's the thing and again, you have just treat those rehab because there's nothing glamorous about this that throwing motion, actually like a rotator cuff exercise.
There's nothing else exactly right.
So people will be like, oh yeah, I'm not doing that.
You know, when I'm going to mention as you know, I'm doing some, you know, my very first year.
But if you do breast sergeant like demonstrating, I had a kind of a in the shoulder like from the day before and sergeants like dang you know, sergeant demonstrates kind of heavy handededly and he rips my shoulder and it I felt it pop out.
So now I can't lift anything above my head.
So all I did was that rotator cuff.
Oh, it's like a program. It's like this way, front back and then down here this way.
And it was only for like two weeks and it was just back. Yeah, it's unfortunately sergeant moved Connecticut because he's one of my favorite training partners.
Yeah, so he can do an accurate little after.
Yeah, yeah.
And when he gets when he's like his go to because he wrestled and he's got a sick double.
He would just get in this double leg mode and he get up or something like we'd be scrambling. He get up and I'd see the look on his face.
Here it comes. Here it comes and he blast that double.
Hit that so hard launch me.
Remember one time I rolled with him and and I think you may have like seen part of it or something and you were like,
Oh, how was it rolling with sergeant? Like, yeah, you know how you kind of explain how the roll went or whatever.
And I was like, yeah, man, and then he got he turned on this moody. You were like, oh, yeah, he's charged out on the foot.
And he was like, did you ever see him do that a sling shot? So he used to have this defense from from getting triangle and he would just I can't really explain it, but he would basically launch the other human being across the map.
And it was awesome.
I'd say somebody locked up a and he didn't care.
Like, he's probably put a triangle on him and he just he'd go into he'd do the sling shot and you just laugh at it because he know he's getting ready to launch somebody.
So yeah, got a screw in Connecticut, by the way, if you're in Connecticut you can go train there.
What is it, what's the call? It ain't no that.
It's called GG2 life. That's what it's called.
Okay. There you go.
Yeah.
Do one of my old teammates and one of my long time training partners to get some with.
Next. Next.
Do you prep your own food daily or eat on the hoof and grab what you can?
I do both. If I if you know, I generally don't pack up something and make a little meal because my travels are weird and random.
But.
Yeah. So when I can't I and I'm at home.
So I make something up. Yeah.
But I eat out a decent amount. I got my go to's and I go eat there.
Sometimes they make good food for me. Yeah.
If you're on the program like back in the dreams.
Yeah. When I was at the same side, bring lunch for sure.
But it was never lunch because I never ate lunch. Never ate lunch.
Never. Remember, it was like, okay, guys. I'm going to go and leave me alone for next hour because I'm going to go eat lunch.
No, never ate lunch. Never. You never see me saying, hey, guys, okay.
Let's call it for now and we'll go eat lunch. And we'll meet you back here in an hour.
No, not how you know don't eat lunch.
So what do you do? Work through lunch and stay late.
And then so when to eat, then just eat.
Oh, great.
I'm a bit graceful. Yeah.
Like I can eat and be on the phone. I can eat and be at the computer.
I can eat and you know, unless we're doing something physical.
Hmm.
And even then eat while you're doing something physical.
As long as you're not doing not.
I'm a meth con.
They carry me.
You miss this one. What would you recommend for striking training is an effective real application practice.
Boxing.
Mointai.
Moica.
That's real easy.
Start with boxing because it's easier to learn. You don't have to throw big kicks.
But it's very effective martial art boxing.
And then once you get decent at that, you just now you can go into Mointai and learn how to use your legs, your elbows, your head.
So there you go.
Yeah.
I agree. The boxing too. And this is strange.
But it's absolutely true.
Is if you, if you don't have experience throwing punches and landing punches,
it's surprisingly hard to punch someone's face.
And landed effectively.
Yeah.
You know how like,
I got the movies.
You see.
I saw him a guy.
I realized, you guys are used to punch people and then he always shake his hand.
Like,
Oh, you know.
Yeah.
Like, I hurt my hand.
Every that was kind of one of the funnier things about your punch.
That's the thing.
Actually, that was funny.
I'm sure I'm a guy where they're trying to make like,
Oh my guy versus such a softy in that way.
That's a hard one.
He's hard for him.
Like,
his brain.
He's super smart.
So, you know, he doesn't carry a gun.
You know, he's not that guy.
Everyone has a paperclip.
He has a brain.
Yeah.
Exactly.
They're right.
Paperclip.
I mean, I've nonetheless.
That's kind of what that was indicating.
But I thought it taught kind of a good lesson where
if you, you know, you watch on TV,
guys just punching guys in the face and the head.
But you can, if especially if you don't have a experience punchy,
and you can probably will break your hand.
Yeah.
Or hurt your hand.
So if you, if you go train boxing, even just once a week,
a little some boxing or whatever, you really get to learn like,
okay, if I'd start throwing these punches,
the different between it.
It's just like,
you get to like six months of
you get to destroy someone with no you get to six months of boxing,
does pretty damn good against someone with no boxing.
For sure.
Yeah.
The only thing with boxing and like striking,
you can kind of, not really.
I mean, people are going to get mad at,
even saying this.
But I'll mean this like straight up literally,
but in the streets, you can have kind of some training.
You know how like if you get in a bunch of street fights,
I'll tell us.
Yeah.
And you punch people to the face.
You learn, yeah.
Exactly.
You learn what you learn.
Don't want you to learn.
Actually mostly from being a legit street fighter,
is you learn the mindset.
Yeah.
No stupid.
Is that sounds?
But here's what you learn.
If I punch this guy as fast as I can before he's expecting it.
And I'm a soccer punch.
You'll become a good street fighter.
That's what street fighting is.
Street fighting a lot is done on aggression.
You know, and if you get in my face and I punch you in the face, you know,
if you look at me and say, what's your problem?
And I hit you.
Yeah.
That's what I'll read like a good experience street fighter that kicks a lot of people's
asses.
That's what they do.
They are over aggressive.
They don't care about getting a fight.
They're not thinking about their fighting.
And so when you say, hey, what's your pack?
Right.
Or the guy says, hey, what do you look crack?
That's what a street fighter is.
They're going to take action very quickly.
Yeah.
That's so you can learn a lot from that.
So when you take that and someone, you know,
when someone shows up at the MMA gym and this is, we know I got a lot of street
fights.
Yeah.
And if they're that's most of the time that's bullshit, but if it's not,
and they're actually a guy that's been in a lot of fights, and it's only so helpful
because now they got someone that they're going to shake hands with and then
engage in combat.
So they've lost the what, and I'm not saying it's a not a real thing.
You know, some of my friends growing up were really good street fighters.
And this is how I'm saying.
That's with kind of a little bit of knowledge is my friends that were really good street
fighters.
What was made them good street fighters?
Wasn't that they studied boxing?
Wasn't that they studied you do to it was because they had a very aggressive mindset.
And so some of them would say,
Hey, what's your crack and they were going ballistic?
Right, right.
You know, or someone's is, what do you look at crack and that's it?
And it wasn't actually it wasn't crack.
Crack.
Crack, crack, crack, crack, crack, crack, crack.
Or, you know, that's so yes, that's what a street fighter has.
They have a mindset of they have been in fights before, but they know that
but they know that the aggression will take them a long way.
Yeah, it's kind of like a guy in the say basketball who, you know, he has a home court
or something and he just shoots a lot of shots, you know.
Yeah.
He knows he knows how to make those shots, but then now you put them on the basketball court.
You have no technical training with dribbling or anything.
Yeah.
Yes, that is true.
That is true.
You can learn the mechanics.
Yeah.
And then you're on your own.
On your own.
Learn the mechanics, but the mechanics.
And then you can, and the mechanics are going to be almost less helpful.
Yeah.
That's what I'm going to actually understanding the mindset of what's going to happen
in a fight.
Now the mechanics will be more helpful in basketball, but it's not once you get in a real
game.
The first basketball game I ever played, I knew the mechanics and I got destroyed every
pass I threw for the first 10 passes I threw got picked off and the guys going down the
other other in the court and scored.
I'm not even kidding.
That happened.
My dad was like a Hoosier's kind of guy to your movie Hoosiers.
It's like, hey, you're going to work the mechanics.
You're going to work ball handling.
You're going to work passing, not shooting.
No sparring or what is it called?
Scrimmaging, right?
You're just going to learn the mechanics.
And then that would have been cool if I would have had a coach that had a different
mindset, but the coach had the same Hoosier mindset as my dad, which is mechanics, mechanics,
mechanics.
So I worked on all these mechanics.
I had really good ball handling.
I had good passing.
And then I got, it was the first game I played in basketball.
I had never actually was a, maybe I'd done a couple live games, but I'd never played against
anyone's skill.
Driveled down the court.
I was a point.
I driveled down the court, held up my fingers about, okay, we're going to run play
number three.
Went over the side through the ball and the dude just picked it off.
And the kid that I was playing against was a really good player.
The other guy that was guarding me just destroyed me.
And the reason was, didn't have the experience of live games.
Now I actually brought that mentality when I was running training.
I always, you know, you can sit there and learn mechanics in the kill house.
So you can sit there and learn mechanics of doing immediate action drills out in the field.
The mechanics are good.
You have to know them, but you have to also be live.
And that's why I loved when they went to seal teams when we went from just having live
rounds and paper targets, which everyone was that was the highest form.
Hey, we train, we train with live fire.
That's the best thing.
And that's what I was raised to believe.
As soon as I saw, we had to send munition and then once I realized how effective
simulation was, I was like, you know, even need some munition, you can go run around
literally saying bang, bang at each other, but you got people moving and it's going to help
you.
So that mindset came from trying to not be just be Hoosiers.
You know, Hoosiers, the movie Hoosiers, the basketball movie, it's an awesome movie.
But the beginning is all just drilling.
And my dad, because I didn't play basketball, I said, don't want to play basketball.
He said, okay, so he's teaching me how to play basketball, but he was like a Hoosier guy.
You're going to be a good defense.
You're going to be a good ball handling.
And then, unfortunately, my coach was the same way.
My first coach was the same way.
7th grade or 8th grade.
Just like, hey, Hoosiers, we're going to have good defense.
And I dribbled out the court.
Got, well, I didn't.
So be careful with that.
But someone that played streetball, someone that played streetball.
Yeah.
And didn't know whenever taught in ball handling, no one ever taught him the theory behind
a zone defense, that guy would have done infinitely better than I did in my first basketball
game.
My dad must have been hanging as well.
He was shame.
He must have been what I'd lose or how did I raise this kid?
Well, yeah.
That's true.
It's the same kind of thing.
Yeah, those street fighters, they know how it feels to land upon.
They know, they have this kind of intuitive gauge on kind of distance in a way, just
if they've been there.
Yeah.
And so that's why when you train people for anything, even in the business world, like
you don't just train the people, the mechanics of a conversation that they're supposed
to have if they're a leader.
Just don't train them on the mechanics.
Here's what you say.
Read this script.
No.
Put them live fire.
I'm in there.
When I'm live fire.
Roll play with them.
How I'm sit with you?
Are you going through something?
Have them go in there and talk to somebody that you told them how to act and act all
crazy.
Do that with them.
Yeah.
Check.
Do you take creating?
I do not take creating.
I have taken creating.
I believe it is an effective supplement when you remember Fossford, Jim.
Yeah.
When that came out, that was the first creating supplement.
I was drinking so much that it was vanilla.
It was disgusting.
And I was on the, I was on a ship at the time with a seal platoon and we were all trying
to get as big as possible.
We were all taking creating.
I was drinking so much Fossford gain that I had to hold my nose and do it.
You know, hold my nose and do it like a shot.
So they'd be wanting to throw up.
So let's like a weight gainer.
Fossford gainer.
Yeah.
And then this Fossfro gainer.
Which everyone I was on Fossford gain.
And it was only vanilla flavor.
Which I don't even like vanilla flavor.
That's there.
There is a mistake.
No.
And that was only Alfred at the time when it first came out.
Because we were all in the game.
But yeah.
Createne is effective.
I never really had any of the big side effects where people say you get dehydrated.
Whatever.
I never really had that bloated.
I never really felt much of that.
But I don't take creatine right now.
I haven't taken it for a long time.
Me neither.
And I don't.
Actually I never did.
Maybe.
No, I took this thing called Baytage and I think there was creatine in that.
It was like long time ago.
Yeah.
And who's too good?
I think.
I mean, I don't know.
But yeah, I don't know much about it.
As far as what's true and what's not here great things.
And I hear jump things.
Welcome to the Interwebs.
Yeah.
Next.
Do you ever?
It's you ever surf in Europe.
I have not surfed in Europe.
I would like to surf in Europe.
I know that you boys up in Ireland got some big slabs.
So maybe at some point I'll get up and surf what their looks awesome.
It's very inconsistent.
They're one very crazy with the title differences.
So that's a point.
Yeah.
Would be cool.
You're a surf in Hawaii?
I have.
I have, yes.
You were bitten a coli before?
No.
All right.
I'm gonna start a 70th.
Think about it.
Next question.
Check.
I have a bad back.
And I need to lose 100 pounds.
Any advice on what exercise is to start with to kick start things.
You have a bad back and you need to take care of that.
And I have no idea what that means.
That could mean so many different things.
What you need to do is you need to probably, you know, start to figure out what you can
do.
You probably want to go to your doctor and say, hey, what can I can not.
What can I do?
what can I not do?
And then doctors sometimes are overly cautious.
So maybe get a second opinion,
see what you can do with earth,
but the bottom line is, if you've got a hundred pounds
to lose, here's what you need to do.
Start moving, some way, somehow,
whether that starts off as walking,
whether that starts off as doing some calisthenics,
whether it starts off as riding an exercise bike,
you need to start moving.
That's what you need to do.
And then you need to fix the diet,
because that's where most of that weight loss
is gonna come from.
And that's the best ways to kick start things.
Agreed, yes.
And you know how?
Okay, the diet thing.
Real quick.
You know how like certain things
you go into certain situations
and you're hit with feelings or certain things
that you weren't expecting,
you're like, dang, I didn't.
I didn't.
I reject feelings.
Yeah.
But you know, then you'll fall into certain pitfalls
because you're like, dang,
I didn't really expect it to be like this, you know?
And maybe if you went in there expecting certain things
or understanding that certain things are gonna come about,
you have more will.
So the diet thing, when you change your diet,
if your diet, let's say your typical diet is poor.
I mean, typically that's gonna mean it tastes good
in some way.
To check whether it be fast food or whatever.
Just whatever is good.
Yeah, let's show this.
Yeah, exactly right.
So it tastes good.
And foods that taste good have a certain chemical reaction
in your brain and they go hand in hand.
Pleasure, well called pleasure.
So when you refine your diet, typically that means
it's gonna be less sugar.
Sometimes less fat, it depends on what kind of diet,
you know, you go on.
But if it's a better diet compared to your junk food diet
based on taste and pleasure.
Just taste it.
Less taste exactly right.
So it's one thing to be like, okay,
it doesn't taste as good and I can handle that, that's cool.
But the chemical reaction in your brain is basically
gonna be telling you like, you need pleasure.
You are being deprived of pleasure.
And you're like, no, they're telling you,
your brain is telling you it's not just pleasure.
It's sustenance.
It's survival.
It's not me.
Yes.
Not just you want, you need that donut.
Yeah, that was the standard.
Now you've been standard.
So we gotta get over that.
And people call it cravings, that's your craving.
But it's one thing to be like, okay, craving.
I can overcome that for a lot of people.
But it's a weird feeling.
It goes beyond just it.
You wanna know a good way to kick things off?
Going on a fast man.
Going on a fast, I don't want to fall asleep for our fast
because I'll tell you what.
The best thing about going on a fast in my opinion
is how it recalibrate your,
it recalibrate two things.
You're actual feeling of hunger
and it recalibrates your taste buds too.
Yeah.
Because when you're eating this beautiful stuff
all the time, you're like, that takes so good.
And you just need more of it.
Whereas once you go on a fast,
when you have a glass of water, it tastes good.
Yeah, I come and say so good.
And then when you break the fast
and you have whatever you're gonna have,
whatever your first meal is,
it takes really good.
And it's very satisfying
because you have an eating thing.
Yeah, your needs is good.
Yeah, your needs.
So that's one of the best things I found about fasting
is that recalibrates those, those two things.
Hunger and taste and things start to taste better.
It's like have you ever,
the easy, you drink Coca Cola, right?
So you're used to that sweet, sweet thing.
Everyone's so strong.
For me, because I don't drink it, if I taste it,
it tastes over the top.
To much sweet, over the top.
And that's because I've fasted from having Coca Cola
for so long that it just is a taste
that I don't even like anymore.
But there's a middle ground where, hey,
you can have it and you go, wow, this tastes
incredibly good.
But I don't need a ton of it
because I got the satisfaction of the taste.
So yeah, that's another good way to kick things off.
It's going to fast, going to 24 hour fast.
You don't need food.
Like I told my daughter was going through
last wrestling season.
She was telling me she says, you know, Dad,
I was thinking, because she's fasting,
or not fasting, she's cutting weight.
Never mind, fasting, she's gotten weight.
Yeah, water.
And her thing was like, you know,
if a person can live for 30 days without food,
I can make it till post weigh-ins.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, you're not starving.
You know, you're cutting weight.
As big Tony BTF, Tony used to say,
like you're not going to die.
Oh, you're going to die.
Oh, no.
No.
So dumb.
I talked to Tony the other day on the phone.
He was all fired up.
We were laughing really hard.
I was telling a story and he was laughing so hysterically
that it was hard to understand.
So yeah.
Big Tony.
Yeah, that was his thing.
Well, you're not going to die if you don't have
anything right now.
Yeah, stop.
See man, that's so that's so dumb.
Don't watch it, but what?
When you feel like eating just picture Tony,
yeah, just picture BTF, Tony, sitting there going,
you're not going to die if you don't have that.
So dumb.
Yeah.
Just be tougher.
Yeah, wrong with you.
Man, that's such a good full.
I mean, it's real funny when he says it.
It makes you feel like real push, but he's kind of right.
You know, it's like you're like, oh my gosh,
I'm just craving.
You know, how am I?
How embarrassing is that?
Imagine this.
Imagine if you had to announce your stupid pathetic
of craving and needs,
oh my gosh, wants to the world.
Yeah.
You know, imagine if I had to walk into a room
and do a group of people and say,
I cannot live another second longer without a donut.
Like that would be so embarrassing as a human to say that.
And yet we think that way and we act that way.
We don't say it, but our actions basically act that way.
We know that the donut is not needed.
Yeah.
If you were starving for 38 days, you'd have done it.
If you were on day 37,
old off, you might find a steak in the meat time.
Yeah.
It's so bad.
And man, you said you mentioned it in a movie thing.
That it's so bad that this is an official
effective way to like improve your diet.
This right here.
Don't keep junk food in your house.
You can't control yourself.
You rationalize too.
You know what?
It's no big deal.
I'm going to start that.
I'm going to fast me three weeks anyway.
So I'm going to just eat this whatever right now.
That's how bad we are.
We can't control ourselves.
I like that idea.
I just thought of just having to announce your weak thoughts
to the whole world and how stupid they would.
Like if you're going to carry out an action that's weak,
you should have to verbalize it first.
Yeah.
I am about to eat this donut because I cannot survive without it.
It's a naturalization to the world.
Yeah.
I'm going to skip this workout because my left pinky is sore
from jujitsu three weeks ago.
Yeah.
No.
Well, that's just better.
That's a better rationalization than a lot of ones that I've dealt with.
I straight up.
I don't feel like it.
Straight up.
That's not good.
Come on, little.
Next question.
CD, PED or HGH question mark.
That means do you take these or are you.
Which one is better?
Yeah.
Well, PED is a general term performance in enhancing drugs and HGH's human growth.
I think he's asking or this person is asking if you take them or you're thoughts on them.
The only performance enhancing drug that I take is jacquaint.
I take jacquaint now.
Which being run through the Olympic committee to see it looks like it's going to get banned
in the Olympics jacquaint.
Yeah, yeah.
Be careful.
Yeah.
Tonya, Tonya, Tonya, records are being broken.
No.
I don't take anything.
Never have.
Yeah.
V.
HGH and Mop, PEDs perform.
What's the performance?
Performance enhancing drugs steroids, bro.
Yeah.
But so let's say technically is caffeine of performance.
I think it actually, I don't know.
I don't know.
Well, it is no.
I do know that it is in a performance enhancing drug.
It is.
People take it.
And when they scientifically measure, it is a performance enhancing drug.
But I think for some reason it's legal.
Yeah.
Even in the Olympics or whatever.
I don't think you do have a maximum that you can take.
I don't think you could just, but fill your blood with caffeine and go do your wrestling
match.
But.
Yeah.
Yeah, interesting.
My, I have this friend called Kiko.
Kiko Killcoin is his name.
I call it.
He was like, I want to say outside linebacker.
Maybe inside.
I don't know.
He's a linebacker.
So he'd have a real good workout.
And you know when you workout, you're lifting.
You'd have a pump, right?
You know, you walk around.
So he'd take off his shirt sometimes.
And he'd be like, like guys, guys.
I think I'm on steroids.
Oh, he thought that was the funniest thing.
Nonetheless, oh, yeah.
No, no steroids are PD.
Junko.
Next.
Can you believe in aliens?
I'm assuming they mean extraterrestrial aliens.
Yeah, I assume they do mean that.
I, my opinion on aliens is that I'm sure in this vast unknown world and universe, there
is likely to be other life forms that have some level of intelligence.
Interesting.
I'm going to scale from one to ten how sure you are.
Obviously, you can't be tan.
Not very.
I'm over a five.
But well, actually, when you take the entire universe, which is so massive, we can barely
even comprehend it, the chances are decent that there's some other somehow intelligent
life form out there.
And you almost, I mean, you kind of have to ask, wait, like, at this very time, but
don't you think about it?
There's really no time.
You know, like, that's kind of relative to.
So, in the whole existence, would you say what?
Nine, or you level nine, sure?
This is a nice, that's my out of opinion.
Don't know.
I think nine, I think like nine points.
Oh, so you're a believer.
Yeah, I'm a believer.
I would be vast, like if some wizard guy was like, okay, you get to make a bet.
Do you think there is or isn't?
I know the answer.
Do you think there is or isn't, you know, you know, the wizard be proof of concept right
there.
Oh, that's your talk until an alien.
What if you use a guy from the future?
Okay.
And somehow figured it out.
I don't know.
They map the whole universe.
I don't know, whatever.
I would bet.
Yeah, the cost is your life, too, by the way.
You have to make a bet.
You have to make a choice.
And if you get it right, you live.
You get it wrong.
You die.
I would bet.
Yes.
The thing is, is you would also be interesting to have a scientist.
Or talk to a scientist about the probability of human life like how incredibly tiny, tiny,
tiny, tiny, tiny, tiny, just like all the little things that had to happen first
to end up here.
Yeah.
And it's okay for them to happen again.
Oh, yeah, to happen again.
But then again, you compare that to the unknown, one of this universe that is so large,
it's incomprehensible.
Yeah.
Chances are it's happened somewhere.
Even just in a way, a different point where it's like, you know, what would it take to make
humans and wind up being humans?
If you look at it backwards, it seems really like, oh my gosh, this is this crazy, you know,
almost impossible.
It's a little percentage.
Yeah, miracle kind of thing.
But you can say that with everyday thing.
If you look at it backwards.
So like let's say I had it like, Legos, right?
Okay, we had this big bucket of Legos.
It was more than one of those big plastic tubs.
It was just full of years and years and years of Lego sets and there's all in there.
If I were to take that tub full Legos and fucking pour it out on the ground on a marble
surface so they scatter everywhere.
And then it'll, you know, when they all settle, it'll be a little pattern, right?
So Lego's various color shapes sizes, all kinds of different places, spaces, and to take
that exact pattern down to the nanometer that exact pattern can be like this is the most
special pattern in the entire world ever in existence.
This one is there is no way you'd, anyone ever, ever, could recreate this exact pattern
down to the nanometer.
It's impossible.
That's why this pattern is so special.
But it's just one of many potential eventualities, really infinite, you know?
And when you end up at something and then say okay that what we have to end up as special,
that's looking at it backwards like I said.
So it's like the lottery winner, you know, the guy who wins the lottery, he's like oh my gosh,
I'm so special, I want to let no freaking, if I took a ping pong ball and I saw in a
head a, a mosh pit of one million people, a one ping pong ball, I throw it in the mosh pit
and then somebody catches it.
Oh my gosh, I'm so special, but someone's going to get it, someone's going to get the
ping pong ball.
That's affirmative.
Yeah.
So it doesn't make it necessarily special unless you look at it backwards, you know?
If that guy's like I'm going to go into another one of the other alien life form could
be something that we could barely even imagine of what it's like.
And that that that probability wise is what it is or it's going to be something like so
small.
Yeah.
But if it's like more a superior intelligence, it's going to be something we don't recognize.
The same way like if you have a caterpillar on a leaf and I see it from 10 yards away.
I see that little caterpillar right there.
Hey caterpillar, yelling at it, you know, vibrations from my voice are hitting it.
Hey caterpillar, the caterpillar has no idea that you even exist.
Doesn't even know what a human is.
Doesn't know about your problems, doesn't know about your podcast, you know?
Meanwhile, you know a lot about your podcast.
You know, it doesn't listen to the podcast.
I can say with a fair amount of certainty.
And you know, I don't know, maybe he does.
I don't know.
He has big butterfly plans.
So it's future.
Jockel.
Next question.
How can I incur it?
Bro, we'll get talk more about aliens.
They'll be having more about aliens or Legos.
I'm telling you.
Lego patterns.
Because you know, when people see UFOs, they go straight to eat.
That's an alien.
Even though it's an undenified, can't do that.
Remember, was telling you that kids book ideas?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You did tell me about that.
You didn't tell me again.
You did go steeper on the telling you.
I'm telling you.
It's actually more about the flaws of how people consider or regarding aliens.
Potentially aliens.
Jockel.
How can I encourage a sense of urgency?
This is hard one.
And others?
Yeah, well, yeah, I think I'm assuming that this means with others.
But for either yourself or others, which you have to realize that time is going by very fast.
And when you have projects that are due, the minute you look at them, you got to say,
this is going to take longer than we think it's going to take.
Let's start moving on it now.
And then set yourself a really tight timelines to make things happen.
And that what that'll do is it'll make you realize how far behind the power curve you are.
That was one of my rules when I was in the seal teams was I was always saying, let's
be as far ahead of the power curve as possible as we possibly can't.
So is that a normal expression power curve?
That's the thing that you're trying to stay ahead of because it's going to smash you.
So I would always, you know, just we didn't slow down the power curve.
If we got we thought we were ahead, go ahead further.
But I always had a really good sense that that power curve was coming across us.
So that's what you have to do.
Get as far ahead of it as you can.
Tell everyone where it is.
And set some small goals say, oh, you don't think this project's going to take long.
Okay, cool.
Let's just finish this first six percent, which means this, this, and this.
And let's have that done by tomorrow afternoon tomorrow afternoon comes another iron
even close.
Okay, guess what?
We need to do a line.
We need to get a sense of urgency going so we can get this done.
That's it.
I know that to encourage a sense of urgency in yourself, what you can do kind of works.
Sometimes is you think about the feeling you're going to have after it's done.
And then consider things that you already did get done.
You're have those things.
Well, you're different, but sometimes we, the people have things that man, we need to do.
And it's just a small thing, you know.
And like, I'll do it later.
I'm doing something right now.
I'll do it.
You know, tomorrow, yeah, sure.
That's pretty intuitive to you.
But you know, sometimes you just feel like doing it later.
I'm just going to do it later because I'm thinking about something right now or I'm doing
something right now.
And then do it now or why are you thinking about doing it?
Just do it.
I know.
Yes.
I want you to go under your kids all the time.
Hey, do the dishes.
Bob, Bob, Bob, Bob, Bob, Bob, Bob, you don't have to be done.
I know.
That's the thing.
That's the whole point right there.
So when you do it, when you do the thing, let's say you got to, I don't know, whatever.
You get a response to an email.
I don't know.
And after you do it, that just that feeling right when it's done.
I'm like, hey, that wasn't taken much.
That's not going to be case every time.
But didn't take much.
And be, I'm done.
My daddy said this saying, this is what he'd say.
Do it and it'll be done.
That's a good saying.
And as a kid, I was like, oh, dear, it's so smart.
That's like it is what it is.
Yeah, I know it is what it is.
You said that.
You don't have to say that, you know.
But what your dad's first name?
Technically, it's William Charles, junior.
Okay, what?
I mean, we have.
We have a new quote from BC, BC, Alfred Bell Charles.
Yeah, so BC is in the house.
No.
Do it and it is done.
I like that one.
Do it and it'll be done.
Do it and it will be done.
Yeah.
I changed it a little bit.
Do it and it's done.
Yeah, same thing.
Same idea.
But his thing was always, yeah, exactly same thing.
Earth makes that words.
BC.
Do it and it'll be done.
Yeah.
At me as a grown adult, arguably, apparently words didn't impact the way you wanted them.
Now I'm seeing the genius of it, you know, doing it will be done.
Like you don't have to say good.
Next question.
If due to it's not locally available, what would be the next best martial arts choice
or the next best thing?
Or is the one way, 70 mile drive worth it?
Thank you.
Meaning, it's not locally available.
It's 70 miles away.
So yeah, there's a lot of other available martial arts.
I would say you got due to an wrestling.
And those exist in a lot of places that due to doesn't exist.
So wrestling, judo, sombo, those are all good options.
Great options.
You can find a catch wrestling school.
So there's definitely some options.
Find a good grappling, but a real grappling school.
What you want to watch out for is a place that says it has karate, kung fu, and jujitsu.
You want to watch out for that place because that means that guy just put that up there
because jujitsu is getting popular.
So watch out for that guy.
And now one's pretty across the board right there.
I mean, I can't really imagine many exceptions where it's like, correct.
All the other ones, and jujitsu, and it's a legitimate jujitsu.
You don't have to be very often it.
Now you might have a place that says boxing, wrestling, or unjujitsu.
Yes, yes, yes.
Probably legit.
Because you've got legit boxing, legit wrestling, legit judo, and legit jujitsu.
So yeah, that's cool.
That's probably true.
But when it's non-lidget things, and they throw jujitsu on the end.
And when ever I'm talking about jujitsu, I'm talking about Brazilian jujitsu.
I just got to make that clear.
I'm talking about Brazilian jujitsu, not other forms of jujitsu.
So be careful of that.
No, I thought I can't.
In the spirit of fairness, they're very well could be like, you know, because a lot of these
guys though, they'll have this vast background and like, Kemple karate.
You're not in here.
Some other side.
And then they, you know, they did.
Yeah, for sure.
Meanwhile, they're their traditionalists, but they're jujitsu, but it's legit.
That's why I said, just be careful.
Yeah, yeah.
Just be careful.
And most people, if 15 years ago, they started taking Brazilian jujitsu, and they
got their black belt, their tai chi, quan, whatever, whatever martial art is not
at the, on the list of what they teach at their school.
It's gone, actually.
If they're a black belt in jujitsu, they're teaching Brazilian jujitsu.
And they don't say Brazilian jujitsu plus bo-can, quan, or whatever.
They don't say that.
They're going to do that.
And if they do do it, I actually am going to question.
There are some questions.
Yeah, sure.
There's questions.
Again, can it be, can there be a legit person?
Yes, there can.
There are some legit dudes that are, you know, black belts in Brazilian jujitsu.
And they're a black belt in some other traditional martial art that they took before that.
That does happen.
Most of the time, when they realized that the white belt or blue belt in Brazilian jujitsu
destroyed them and they're martial art that they took over 10 years, they don't put that
on the list anymore.
That's why it does to most people.
So that's why there's questions.
Yeah, questions.
There's questions.
So yeah, wrestling, wrestling.
I know I'm missing it.
I apologize.
I've got folks out there from missing, but wrestling, judo, sombo, catch wrestling.
Those net now, if there's no kind of grappling, then you boxing, moitai, that's your
next-to-option.
So that you're still learning how to fight.
You just don't get in the groundwork and you definitely want to get the groundwork at
some point.
So.
And then the question on the 70 mile drive, I get this a lot too.
Some people, they have no martial art in their area.
And they have a martial, they have jujitsu 70 miles away.
What should I do?
My vote in that situation is get some mats at your house, get two or three of your friends
that want to learn how to fight.
Start watching YouTube videos.
And once a week on the Saturday, go down to that jujitsu school.
When we were training at back at Fabio's, they lived somewhere in the desert of Southern
California, there was no jujitsu.
They worked nine to five and then on Saturday, they come out and train.
And that's what they got.
And they go home and work on their drills with their three guys that they were driving
80 miles to come and train on the weekends.
So yeah, that's a method of doing it too.
You can train on your own with your buddies on the mats that you get and watching YouTube.
Or whatever online mechanism you want to use.
And then once a week you come and you make the track and you learn and you get to train
with other people and you see where you're at.
Yeah, thank you.
That's good.
Very good.
Yeah, the next best thing is a heart, I guess it's a total matter of opinion.
But I feel like wrestling, like if you went, like wrestling is like a really good tool.
It depends on what you're doing.
Like why you're doing it.
Yeah.
And wrestling is awesome.
I know that that's the best thing is awesome.
Wrestling is gives you such a massive advantage, not only in Jiu Jitsu, but in life.
Yeah.
It gives you an advantage.
So wrestling is awesome.
That being said, judo is awesome too.
And if you train, but there's a more of a variation in judo schools, right?
And a high end judo school, those people are awesome.
And that's a great martial art.
And you learn groundwork, you learn take downs.
It's a great martial art.
No question about it.
There are some weak judo schools though.
Jiu Jitsu has a little bit of a tendency to sometimes judo people can adapt some of the traditional
martial arts, traditional martial arts, attitude, including the attitude of, we're not
actually training.
And so that has happened.
But that's less that doesn't happen very often.
So yeah, if you can find a good judo, the way you find it's good judo school, go and
put on a key and say, let's fight or let me train with you.
And they're going to put you just, they're going to take it down and be able to work you
over.
That's what judo is.
Jiu Jitsu is very similar to judo.
Very similar to judo.
So judo is a great thing to have.
Wrestling is a great thing to have.
For sure.
Awesome.
So sambos great.
Same with catch wrestling.
Again, there's catch wrestling is a little less with catch wrestling.
You're a little bit more apt to find something that doesn't actually know what they're doing.
And so you have to be careful of that.
There's some phenomenal catch wrestling schools though.
For sure.
I think we've got time to look at them more of these.
Yes.
Jucco.
How do I get the desire to have discipline?
I keep getting asked this type of question.
How do I get discipline?
Or how do I want discipline?
Or how do I maintain discipline?
And the answer, it's a simple answer, but obviously it's not easy.
And there's all kinds of tricks and methods that people talk about.
And they have some merit.
You know, maybe they do work.
Because these things, you know, do the little things people say and wake up early.
I say that and write things down and take cold showers and tell everyone what you're going
to do.
So broadcast it and make promises or make bets with your friends of something that you don't
want to lose.
And those things, those ideas, they're cool.
I'm sure they're going to have some impact.
And if they work for you, that's awesome.
But the fact of the matter is that the reason discipline is hard to maintain is because
it is hard to maintain.
That's what makes discipline hard.
It's hard.
And if you hear me claim that discipline is easy for me, then straight up, that's just
my ego talking.
That's what that is.
Because I'm unfortunately just as human as everyone else.
And it is work to maintain the discipline.
That's what it is.
Like holding the line, maintaining the standard, giving no slack, none.
That's the discipline.
That's the discipline and it is hard.
And if there's one thing I would say that does make it easier, it's to envision what it feels
like when you're done.
What it feels like after you've worked out or you've held the line on your food intake
or you've pushed through some monotonous project that you have to do and all those things.
When they're done, they feel good.
And contrary to that, envision what you will feel like later when you let the discipline
slack, you know the feeling.
Feeling weak and defeated and you know that you're falling behind.
So get to know those two different types of feelings and ask yourself which one you want
to feel in 10 minutes or in a half an hour.
When the thing is done, when the discipline has been implemented, remember what that feels
like and then remember that those minutes and those hours they turn into weeks and months
and years and holding the line in those critical minutes will put you in an infinitely
better place physically and mentally if you maintain the discipline.
So work through the weakness, fight through the temptation, hold the line, hold the
line, maintain the discipline.
It is not easy, but it is worth it.
Because yes, because discipline equals freedom.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight.
So echo, speaking of discipline, perhaps in a discipline manner, you could explain to us
how we could support this podcast if we wanted to.
I feel like we should, like we always do in a disciplined way, talk about it.
Discipline, I mean concise, by the way.
Oh, okay, I don't know about that.
Or over two, remember half hours or something like that.
Something like this, sure.
Okay.
That doesn't control.
That doesn't play in the earhead.
You're in the game, you're here to get your job but you care longer takes.
Correct.
Nonetheless, last time I mentioned that I ran out of krill oil, you even said you should
go to the store and buy some.
Yeah.
Did you?
No.
The good thing is when I went home from our session, you did come in.
Oh, a lot of ways.
Thankfully.
Be orangutane.
Oh, you got to get a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit
of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit.
Or just one.
One.
What's the weight?
54 pounds.
You need another one.
Yeah, so I want the zombie one.
That's right.
For whatever, the ring ting ones cool, but this zombie one was really cool.
So they're out of them.
I think they're the same weight.
54, so I want 250, fours they're out of them.
So I was like, yeah, I'll just get one of these, just, you know, as a one off and then
one that's on the one's come in.
Check.
I'll get the two zombie ones.
So where's this store?
The other thing is that on it.com, but I'm explaining what it is just, excuse me,
put on, oh no, or they don't understand the importance.
I think it's important.
Nonetheless, Krill Oil came in.
This is what you do.
And I mentioned this before, and this is what I'm going to do.
I'm going to try to do.
I should just do it and it'll be done.
Stay on it.
You know what that is, right?
Oh, the automatic.
Yeah, the re.
Oh, yeah.
What do you even call it?
Three automatic automatic.
Automated shipment.
Yeah, you just pay every month and they're automatic.
Yeah, yeah.
I think you might even get a deal in that one.
I don't know though, but that's what I'm going to do.
I'm a status called stay on it.
Yeah.
You know what, man?
That's, and a lot of people or companies do that.
You know, like to, you know, you do it on Amazon.
That was stuff.
Yeah, I was on like to toilet free.
So you know things that you just use all duct tape, duct constantly running out of that.
Yeah.
That's a good deal.
I mean, that's a good thing to do with basically everything.
About one time when I was drinking.
Rock, I'm not drinking anymore.
Hardly.
Who was it?
It was Rudy.
He asked me to do something of video or something.
I don't know.
And he was like, hey, can I pay you in vodka?
And I was like, I got a savage.
He even says that.
I know, Rob Rudy.
Anyway, and he goes, can I pay you in vodka?
I didn't tell him to get out of here.
I was, I was considered outside.
Wait a second.
It kind of is like currency when you drink every day.
You know, it's kind of like, I'm going to spend that money anyway.
So I'm like, hey, you know what I could do.
I'm just thinking about it lasted for like five seconds.
Maybe ten, maybe twenty.
But I thought to myself, hmm, think of how much money I would have charged them.
Like double liter triple it and get that much worth of vodka.
Boom, I just saved 75.
You know, 66%.
You know what I'm saying?
Okay, move on.
Nonetheless, the point still stands.
If it's, if you don't have to think about it, it just comes.
Yeah, you don't get to run into this thing.
Like me where I'm out of cruel oil for one week.
Actually it was a little less than a week, doesn't matter.
I won't be out of it at all.
So yeah, stay on it.
That's the one.
Crue oil, strong bone.
Didn't run out of that, by the way.
And that's good man.
That's stuff is good.
It's weird how.
I told you right how my shoulder was jacked like the dead.
Yeah, I don't know.
To you healthy and I didn't even stop lifting.
You know how you get 10 and I just, you're like, I got to stop lifting.
Or lift lighter, you know?
Sorry.
Lighter is for suckers.
Strong bone.
Stay strong, get rid of the 10 and I just and any bone issues.
I think if I'm not mistaken, I'm not sure.
I got to go back on the website.
I get addicted to that website.
It's like interesting stuff.
I think it can delay or stop the onset of osteoporosis.
I don't want to make that claim.
I'm not making that claim.
I don't make it.
But I'm just saying that's what strong TM does nonetheless.
Good kettlebells on there.
Work out stuff.
Especially if you like like fuck, you know, if you go in bench.
I don't bench, but if you do a, you know, just repetitious shoulder press.
I don't know.
It can get boring.
But if you're into like interesting type workouts, you know, how like, did you have a
Mace?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
On it clubs.
Yeah, I got on that.
See, yeah, that's why you work out so much and early in the morning because you're
out looking forward to it.
It's all interesting.
If you're into those interesting workouts and it's cool because you can like look up a bunch of
workouts just for one kettlebell, you know?
So Maces and of course they got the, you know, traditional stuff.
But like they have these metal things.
I don't know what they are, but it's like, you know, these are for working out.
So it's like, man, you can't even get bored working out anymore.
Really?
When you go in there.
Anyway, website's interesting too.
Anyway, this stuff, the supplements are outstanding.
They do have, um, yeah, I'm gonna say it.
This nut butter blend.
Also I got some MCT oil.
Yeah.
MCT stands for.
Yes, I do.
Medium chain triglycerides.
It's good for you.
Anyway, I cook with that one and I put it in what?
Didn't you make like a dessert with it or something?
All kinds of stuff.
Put it with something.
It's your MCT.
It'll be whipping cream or something.
Anyway, go on there.
Get 10% off.
If you want 10% off, go on it.
.com slash jacco.
It's a good one.
Support yourself.
Support your joints.
Support your health.
I don't think you should be in a situation anymore.
Anymore, given the times where to not support your health.
This really no room for not supporting your health right now.
All your needs are met.
You're not going out in like.
You're not hunting for a fluke.
Yeah.
Nonetheless, do that on a.com slash jacco.
Also, good way to support your brain is to read these books.
You gene sledge another one from him.
Trying to marine.
Also around the floor.
And a rumor of war.
And we go on reading it upside down.
Yeah.
And we go on.
Oh, those are powerful books.
On the website, jacco.com.
There's a page.
It's called books from the episode top menu.
Click on it.
Boom.
All the books from all the episodes with the link directly to Amazon.
You get those books through there.
That's a good way to support.
And sometimes I'm clicked through or if you're doing any other kind of shop,
and just click through our website and get whatever you're going to get,
including but not limited to these books, duck tapes, duck tapes,
maybe you need multiple roles, duck tapes,
but even if there was multiple roles, I think it's still duck tapes.
Yeah.
Do you got different types of duck tapes?
Still no.
Or paper clips.
You ever get stuff that you're into getting.
I've been getting more nice.
I'm going to bring them in for a whole year.
We're going Amazon and be like, hey, this is cool.
And then you know how they show you the little suggestions.
And then you buy all the suggestions to your done on the next floor.
Buy all the suggestions.
No, because I have discipline.
I mean, so I went on there and I got a flashlight.
You know how not he's flashlight technology.
Yes, the flashlight.
The spreadsheet.
Not he's back in the day.
Remember the ones that you had.
Like a case flashlight, you know, big, but they're big.
So those were dope as a kid.
Like if you had that one, you were like the man.
Yeah, exactly.
It's some kind of relieving it.
So like let me get a flashlight.
Then you look at all the new flashlight.
Oh, my gosh.
These are awesome.
So I'm like, okay, I'm going to buy this.
I'm buying mag light.
Like lights are dope because you can hit people with it.
Yeah.
And then you're in the event of having to use it for a weapon.
So I get one and then I click on it and there's various options
on the length of it.
I'm like, oh, so I get the regular one.
Camel flash from my daughter.
She's four.
She likes flashlight.
Like all kids do.
I get two for me.
One for Sarah, too.
It's a long one.
It's like a six cell.
Meaning it takes six batteries so you can imagine how long that
it's like a straight up baton with a flashlight on it.
So I got I wind up getting nine flashlight.
I don't need nine flashlight.
This is an indication of a total lack of discipline.
Yeah.
I hope you did me click through though.
Yes, I did.
And I got a book too, by the way.
So yeah, sure.
I lacked Amazon flashlight shopping discipline.
But I got some cool flashlight.
There's this technique here.
I'll show you it.
You might even know this, but I learned this in Bouncer.
It's security training.
And this was a technique that you're this illegal to use.
You can't use it as security because it's offensive.
It's not.
In security use minimum force necessary to affect a whatever to to use
situation, whatever.
So this is what it is.
Let's say this was a flashlight.
And this is the light part, right?
Mm-hmm.
So usually as a lay person, you hold the flashlight like this, right?
And you like in law enforcement and stuff like that, they hold it like this.
Mm-hmm.
It's kind of up above like that.
So this is how you hold it.
So you shouldn't you grip it right there by the head of it
with light.
You shine it in the guy's face.
Correct.
And be like calm down, calm down, calm down.
They can't really see you.
They're just blinded by the lights.
And they're like, oh, and they hear your voice and calm down, calm down.
And men, you can get and you flip it around and hit them with it.
And you get those long mag lights that, if the six sell.
Full batteries.
Boom.
They don't say it coming.
They don't flinch.
They don't blink.
Yeah.
They don't anything.
It's just a complete.
You see light one moment for a split second.
The light kind of goes down.
Then you get flash.
Then you see, yeah, you wake up.
That's it.
And man, the video I saw how I'm doing it to somebody else.
Dang, it's like, you know those eerie, you know like, when you see a person die
whether it be on video or whatever.
You get shot and his body just goes limp.
He doesn't know it's coming nothing but it looked like that.
He got hit with it so square and so hard and he didn't even flinch.
It's a real effective thing.
Don't do it to people.
Unless they're in your house or something like that.
Anyway, I digress.
Also, good way to support is subscribing to the podcast.
I do in Google, play, Google play, Stitcher.
All these podcasting providing platforms.
Also, YouTube technically is a podcast providing platform.
So, subscribe to that one.
Here's the thing about YouTube.
If you don't know already.
It gives you the added benefit of being able to see the video version.
Jocos face.
Talking about these things.
So, subscribe to that.
What's on there?
Other excerpts on there?
Some enhanced excerpts.
Is that what we're calling them?
Sure.
They enhanced one.
Put some music on there.
Right?
Some b-roll.
That's what it's called.
B-roll.
Anything that's not the actual thing.
Anyway.
And also, what did I say? I was going to put on there last time.
I was going to put on something.
On YouTube?
Yeah.
Some more videos.
More videos.
Have more videos.
Yeah.
Some more videos.
It's just a theory at this point.
But, nonetheless, subscribe and boom.
You can support that way.
Also, Jocos is a store.
It's called Jocos Store.
What's the website?
It's an online store.
Jocosstore.com.
So, what this has, if you don't already, is T-shirts?
Who do you think I'm going to put some light hoodies on there?
Some more time.
You don't like that idea?
No.
Have you heard nothing?
Yes.
Have you?
Have you heard or no, shirt?
Yes.
Do we're tank tops?
Not really.
You do?
Yes.
My wife threw a bunch of mine away about five or seven years ago.
Because she doesn't know that they all told her.
No, they were just all old and ready.
And she threw them away randomly.
Yeah.
Which was awesome.
She's so thrilled.
She's telling me that she's not cool.
That's not cool.
I just wanted to say one of the four things that I still bring up to her.
No kidding.
Like, oh, she can't believe how hot it is today.
I'd be comfortable if I had a tank top.
I don't have an excuse to threw them away.
They were all ratty.
Yeah, no.
She doesn't like the way you look in those tank tops.
It's offensive to our sensibility.
That's cool.
Yeah, man.
I'm just saying, you know, stop pointing the finger.
Start pointing them up.
Thumb.
Right?
That's the expression, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
You got to watch out for that.
Strangely.
I don't watch out for your tank tops.
Yeah.
You know, a point there is someone did say, actually not many people say tank tops would be cool.
I don't wear tank tops.
You do apparently.
Yeah.
So that's obviously a sore subject.
That's also what I do.
My whole wardrobe with tank tops.
Bring them back at the gate.
Ready or not?
Tank tops.
Here we come.
On the left.
And pre-rattied.
Yeah, oh, dang.
Yeah, you know those okay.
Put them on the sander.
Yeah.
On the left.
Church or cool.
If you think they're cool, check them out.
Talks to the store.
Come on there.
Check out the shirts.
This rash guard's on there.
I think I'm saying obviously just my opinion.
The rash guard's a cool.
That's like to me.
Actually, there's a lot of good things on there.
things on there, my opinion, but nonetheless shirts on there, they're cool. If you want to support,
do it that way, go to the website, see if you like something, get something. Hats are coming soon,
whatever that means, but they'll be here soon. Also, psychological warfare, if you don't know what that is,
I know you do, but let's say you didn't know what that was here. I'm gonna tell you. It is,
and now, but with tracks, jococax, jococ saying what, hey, these are the pragmatic,
logical reasons why you shouldn't slip on your diet or you're waking up early or this is why you should
not skip to the workout. This is why you shouldn't slack on the workout, like all these little things that
you'll, the probability of you slacking on certain things in life, or they fluctuate really,
but in the event of you slacking on something and you need a spot, verbal, verbal, and psychological.
Get this, check this out, search psychological warfare, jococulwilling, on iTunes, or Amazon
music, or wherever they sell MP3s, get that, and get a little spot, get a little spot for your
points of weakness in your, yeah, dirty. I said it, and that helps. Also, you can get jococoyt on Amazon,
by the way, we talked about it a little bit today. The person said that they drank a couple of
jococoyt this morning before I left for mustard 0 0 or two, and ended up at mustard 0 0 1.
Not saying that I've proven jococoyt allows you travel through time and space, but here we are.
So again, this is a verified purchase review. So this is a person that actually experienced this,
so we need to keep that in mind. Jococoyt, you get an own Amazon dot com. Also, way the warrior kid,
book for kids, and possibly adults. I think we're starting to see that. Okay. Here is a review.
I wish I had read this book before. It gives you an excellent path to a successful,
fulfilled life. It is very easy, but don't be fooled. It's incredibly deep, too. I think it is great
for a 10 year old or for an 80 year old as you are never too old or too young to learn the basics
of an honorable life worth living. Fantastic. 100 stars. So that's pretty cool. Pick up the book.
It's about how to be better, how to overcome the obstacles that we all face. And it's told through
the voice of a 10 year old boy, named Mark and his uncle, Uncle Jake, who comes into his life
to help him overcome some of these obstacles. So there you go. That's where the warrior kid.
Also, discipline equals freedom, field manual. Editing is complete at this time. So many of these
questions I get asked all about all the time are laid out in this book. Food, workouts, martial arts,
and my operating system. What you that I've talked about on this podcast is in the book. In a written
form, this book is like the podcast that you can read and absorb and refer back to. So the book is
like the podcast, but you're going to see it's not a normal book. It's not normal. My publisher
says we've never published anything like this. I don't think there's anything else published
like this ever. So it's a little different. It's not a regular book. Just like this is an
regular podcast. Just like what was for you to feel manual. You can preorder it right now. And of
course, extreme ownership, leadership book is based on what I learned during 20 years in the seal
teams about leadership and especially from the battle of Ramadi and how to take those lessons
and apply them to the battlefield, to business and to life wrote that with my brother,
Lave Babin, who was on the battlefield with me and Ramadi. Also, we have leadership and
management consulting company. Me, Lave Babin, JP to know Dave Burke, leadership and management
alignment for your team. If you want that email info at echelonfront.com and finally the
mustard Austin, Texas, July 13th and 14th, two late sold out. We're done with that one. Not done with it.
It's still going to happen, but you can't come because it's sold out. No more seats. We were able to
bump it up a little bit. I think we got to like 320 or 330. But that's it. We were supposed to only
have 300. And then we rearranged some seats or whatever. So we got it to 320, I think. But that's it.
We cannot put anyone else in there sold out. So the next shot is back in San Diego, September,
14th and 15th back. The Ammi hotel on the bay in San Diego. A lot of people from the first
mustard in San Diego are coming back. And I think that will be awesome to hear from people. Okay,
you went, you went to the first mustard. You learn some things. Then you brought them back to
apply them real world. You hit some obstacles. What are the obstacles that you hit? Let's figure
out how to get around them. That's mustard 004 San Diego California. After that, we're not going
to go again with a mustard for a while. At least until sometime in 2018, probably once again in the
spring time, but later in the spring. So beware of that. If you don't come to September, it's going
to be a while. And until the mustard, if you do want to communicate and hang out a little bit,
you can find us getting aft. Well, you're not really getting aft. You're not really getting aft.
You're not getting it. But you can find us typing letters into a keyboard on the interwebs. That's
right on Twitter, on Instagram and in the Facebook. Oh, ha. Echo is at Echo Charles and I am at
Jocco Willink and thanks for listening and subscribing and supporting and spreading the word.
But more important thanks for grabbing a hold of the challenges and the struggles in your life
and learning from them. And then climbing up those challenges like a Jacob's ladder
and using them to elevate yourself instead of letting them drag you down. And when you get to the top,
look around and give someone else a hand. Pull them up, tell them what you learned.
Try to do it in a tactful way, try and teach them and look around and see who can help you and
teach you and what you can learn from other people. And teach people to overcome challenges the
same way that you did the same way we all did by learning from our problems and our challenges
and our struggles. And after we learn from them, we grab them by the throat and get after it.
So, until next time, this is Echo and Jocco out.